---
title: "A Wizard of Earthsea Book Review"
date: Tue Dec 04 2018 11:51:02
type: literature
---
A Wizard of Earthsea is a classic fantasy novel written by Ursula K. Le
Guin about fifty years ago. It won numerous awards and is popular among
teenagars. The book has many morals in it. I will analyse it with a
description of its plot.

Ged first learned magic from his aunt. With a gift in magic, he proved
it when he saved his villagers from invaders. However, his aunt is a
witch who knew little about magic and could not satisfy Ged. This led to
Ged's hunger in learning magic and proving himself.

Thus, when Ogion taught him almost nothing he became impatient, Ogion
wanted to teach him to be silent and listen while he wanted to learn
spells. He was arrogant and not contented, he wanted his talent in
sorcery to be realized. That's why he couldn't stand the girl's teasing
and released the shadow. But he wasn't strong enough that time and Ogion
was there to protect him. The shadow settled him and ceased his
arrogance for some time. But his decision to go to Role showed it was
still in his heart, and it would lead to danger at any second.

When Ged arrived at Role, he began learning fast, contenting himself
with books and losing awe in everybody, even the Archmage, When Jasper
looked down on Ged, he desperately wanted to show himself, He wanted
everybody to watch him with awe. At the feast, Ged forgot everything.
The only thing he wanted to do was to beat Jasper. When Jasper asked him
to summon a spirit, he put the fear of the first shadow he released away
from his mind. The first shadow showed Ged was a fool and he wanted to
say he wasn't. Though Ged verified himself at last, it led to the
Archmage's death and his scar.

Finally, Ged's brain cleared and realized he is nothing but a big fool.
He lost everything he tried to get. He was self-conscience and guilty.
He wanted to do something good. So, he became selfless, the one who he
should be at first.

Ged, with his strong will and bravery, defeated the dragon and protected
the people of Low Torning; with his mind turned far from fame and
wealth, withstand the lure of the stone to rule the world; with his
strong hate of his old self, followed Ogion's advice and went hunting
after the shadow. After much efforts Ged finally became whole again.
This book told us to stay modest and silent. The shadow represents the
tedious and boring things in life we must do. We shouldn't let them
bother us but face them bravely and defeat them. Only then, we can be
whole.

Another thing to notice is that Ged is dark-shinned unlike other heroes.
It showed that we needn't be white-skinned needn't be perfect to be a
hero or to do great hings.

A Wizard of Earthsea is unlike any other fantasy books I've read. It is
not only a book for children but also for adults. It is to be read and
taken in slowly. It is much serious in magic than any other novels. It
is a classic, still famous half a century after its publication.

## References

- [Ursula K. Le Guin's Website](https://www.ursulakleguin.com/)
- [A Wizard of Earthsea on Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13642.A_Wizard_of_Earthsea)
- [A Wizard of Earthsea on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Wizard_of_Earthsea)
