---
title: "Class is starting, and I am getting ready"
date: Tue Jan 17 2022 10:42:57
type: journal
---
It has been a while since I posted, and Class is starting tomorrow.
Today is Martin Luther King Day. Everybody takes a day off.

Today is a fine day, the sun shining bright and clear sky. But it is
very windy. I did almost nothing, just playing and wasting time all day,
like every other day.

Tomorrow my classes are starting. I am so afraid that I cannot
understand the class materials.

My housemates are just moving in. There weren\'t very talkative,
spending most of their time in their rooms.

My fourth finger hurts a little on the edges, but it\'s like no big
deal.

I mean, now I still haven\'t got many friends. My social life is so
strange starting from middle school. I really want to have some people
to talk to and hang out with. I mean, it sucks to be alone.

I know that learning is the only thing that I should actually do. I know
that I still suck. But seeing people my age hanging out with friends
just makes me kinda feel so lonely, you know. Sometimes when you go to a
concert or a show alone, and you don\'t enjoy and walk out. But if you
go to see a drama with someone else, it gets so interesting.

Most of the time, I am telling myself that learning is the only
important thing that matters in my life. If not, then why should I go to
Shibei instead of SMIC? Why should I go to UCB to exchange instead of,
like, UCI? My parents cared about this thing a lot. I have thought about
nothing more, and here\'s my conclusion. I am still so bad, and I should
keep learning my priority and ignore other stuff.

My sleeping schedule is still strange, I mean, the bed doesn\'t make you
very sleepy, so I ended up spending much time trying to fall asleep and
wondering nothing.

Tomorrow my schedule will be more packed, and I think this semester will
be the most unique one in my life.

There are many things I hope to achieve, but I doubt that I will make
any one of them. It was just that, you know, how uncontrollable I am.

Berkeley is a beautiful place, and foothill is a yummy cafeteria. I
don\'t care what other people are saying, but the dining hall food is
enjoyable. I guess that I just enjoy almost any food, except those very
spicy, salty stuff.

Windows became very slow. I hate it when it becomes like that. I mean,
Linux computers are much faster and easier to use without having u wait
a thousand years to load some basic features.

Today I went to Edward\'s Stadium and saw a group of students. Actually,
it wasn\'t kids. They look quite old. I mean, not old, but mature. They
look much more mature than me, and I believe that they may be a few
years older than me.

I believe that by focusing on academics, I can enjoy life and be less
anxious, achieving a sense of serenity. But I am so stupid and lazy. I
really hope I change someday.

Oh, and by the way, I am just trying to get up early. I mean, I have to
go to morning classes at 8 am, so I have to get up before 7, right?

It was like climbing mountains, just going to the classrooms and
library.

I also want to run, but somehow I had classes every day at 5 pm, so I
can\'t join the Cal Running Club. I want to run myself on Edward\'s
Stadium, but it was, like, usually closed. Many people here wear shorts
in this freezing 50 F winter, and some of them aren\'t even fat. I feel
so cold sometimes.

I dunno what else to say in this log.
