---
title: "December of 2019"
date: Fri Dec 25 2020 14:23:24
type: journal
---
December of 2019

## The start of December------Busy With Tests

There was no snow that winter. With December came the high-school
entering test and math competitions.

I decided to go to an International school since my parents want me to
go to an American university and learn more. I applied to Shanghai World
Foreign Language Middle School.

The test was arranged as follows

-   8:00-10:00 Math

-   10:30-12:00 Chinese

-   1:00-3:00 English

This is the schedule of the test. The math test was very easy and in the
end, there were only 2 problems I didn't work out. The English test was
hard and I didn't write the composition well.

In the evening, I felt tired and went out for a walk.

In 12.1 I came to Shanghai Pinghe Bilingual School to take their
application test. They only have math and English tests.

The math test is very easy and I soon worked out all the problems and
checked it again. The English test was very strange. Of all the entrance
tests I've participated in, I never saw a test like that. The cloze has
a total worth of 16 points, while its total is only 28 points. I spent
my time wisely and did the test.

After two tests I went for a walk along a small river, it was really
relaxing.

Because of me doing well in the tests, I was asked to enter the second
part of the entrance exam. The second part was to be interviewed by two
teachers.

On 12.11 I went to WFLS. They asked me to introduce myself in Chinese
and English and ask questions to the others.

It was 3:00 in the afternoon and I was sitting in a room with 3 girls
and 2 boys(including me).

The teacher: Stand up and introduce yourself. If you're ready, please
raise your hand.

One by one, the others stood up and introduced themselves. A boy is good
at walking long distances, a girl good at singing, English, and always
helping community.

I was the fourth to raise my hand. I described my math skills and
English ability. I also said I can run really fast and can run 1km in
3:27. They seemed impressed. The others never said about their math
skills. They only said about their TOELF points and social activities.

Then I went home feeling anxious and excited.

In 12,14 I went to join a math competition held by Shanghai math school.
It was easy and I had done so many similar tests at school (in fact, one
day doing at least two of them). I did well in that test and got second
prize(I was first in second prize).

In the afternoon I went to Pinghe school. Pinghe is located in Green
City in Pudong district. What beautiful places! The street is lined with
trees on both sides and you can see foreigners and big houses
everywhere. It is one of the most beautiful places in Shanghai and an
international community, Such an escape from the pressured, competing
environment at school!

I went inside the school, and, since I was to be called an hour later, I
sat down in their cafeteria and read "Ordinary World".

Then I was called, I went inside and to be interviewed by a foreign
teacher.

I said I liked math, and number theory best. He asked me if I would like
to explain whether number theory is invented or is being discovered. I
said man invent numbers and then the theories and hidden there for them
to discover.

I was then called up to the third floor and was interviewed by two
female teachers. Looking back, I was really dissatisfied.

Firstly the teacher asked me for my basic information.

-   You study till how late in the night?

-   Till ten, sometimes till eleven. I think efficiency is more
    important than huge amounts of time spent. I think sufficient sleep
    brings me more energy to focus in the daytime.

-   You want to live on campus, right?

-   Yes.

-   Then what do you do if your roommate study at night?

-   (I felt taken aback by this sudden attack.) I will associate with
    him. If not successful I will call my parents and teachers and
    listen to their advice.

-   (sounding not OK)Ok

-   You good at mathematics?

-   Yes.

-   What prizes have you got.

-   Second prize in Shanghai math school competition in eighth-grade.

-   That a prize in your school?

-   (I felt surprised. They didn't even know what I was saying. How
    strange! My brain froze at that time and I didn't know how to
    explain myself. Amateur math school isn't a school like Shibei
    middle school.) No.

-   How many participants?

-   300. 

(The teachers didn't seem impressed at all. I wanted to say, you don't
know my ability in math, and she was like thinking I'm not so good. But
those three hundred participants are among the best in Shanghai and I
got second prize. Pinghe school hasn't got one on the list. I feel
confident I can be number one in mathematics in your school.)

-   Give you 1 minute. Explain this drawing.

(It was a drawing of two robbers stealing artwork from a gallery. Except
at that time, I didn't really understand. I thought they were preparing
for a gallery or something.)

\*\*Note of author re-reading this material at 2023: I am very bad at
understanding visual stuff at first glance. My brain is like a neural
network that needs a lot of training to think out of the box. I usually
intepret everything my own way, either I am born with it or doing
repetitive difficult math tests in middle school made me do that

(It showed two thieves, instead of stealing the artworks, took the label
away. This drawing was supposed to tell us we need material objects more
than things from the surface.)

-   Ok, you may go.(This time sounding Really not ok)

I failed this interview. However, WFLS admitted me;

There are three reasons for my failure.

1.  The teacher wasn't satisfied for my styles.

2.  I am really not good at explaining things.

3.  I am not good at identifying what pictures are going to tell.

Actually Garden City is always my favorite place so failing it was kind
of sad for me, even though it didn't matter since I wasn't going to that
school anyways.

After these two tests, December was drawing to an end.
