---
title: "End of Ninth-grade First Semester"
date: Mon Jan 25 2021 08:32:55
type: journal
---
## How school was at the end of December

At the end of December, things in school became duller than ever.

There were no more new things to study. every day was reviewing and
repeating.

Teachers were getting anxious, and students were more anxious. Teachers
worried whether students would be admitted to good high schools. The
first mock exam was drawing nearer.

Some students had already been admitted to good schools, only afraid to
be rejected. Other students were working so hard, trying to be admitted
to lower-level schools.

That was why some students were preparing for their high school
competitions and busy showing off while other students were struggling
under great pressure.

Although I said I wanted to go to an International school, the teacher
still moved me to the front row. Being in the front row meant being
watched by the teachers 10 hours a day and sitting with lots of other
anxious students.

I felt extremely lonely these days. The school was killing me.

## How I walked to entertain myself

Every Friday I walked along the Huangpu River. I walked on the south
part of the route, from the China Art Museum to the Oriental Sports
Center. These days were too cold for running, so my only entertainment
was walking. Looking into the wide space, seeing how big the world
really is made me realize how little I was.

There are lots of places to rest along the route. I walked inside to get
hot water and a place to rest. I saw the date 19-12-21. I thought about
how much of 2019 was left. Oh, such a long year. I matured a lot. Yet it
was suddenly ending.

I thought about the famous poet Su Shi said

If you look at its changing aspect, the universe passes in the twinkling
of an eye; but if you look at its changeless aspect, all creatures
including ourselves are imperishable.

Everything is going to pass away, even money, people. We are but little
insects in the world, our lives nothing of a matter. Life is changeable
and unstable. Thus treasuring the present, making use of the things you
have, and not wasting time is important. Knowing this can only make us
pay more attention to the present joys and enjoyments and be more than
happy to accept everything we have and the way they are instead of
blaming the world for bad fortunes and few opportunities.

Huangpu River is a beautiful river, so beautiful at night. There is a
Bowl-like building in Puxi and a tall white building in Pudong. There is
a big temperature building and a huge stone hand near the Nanpu Bridge.
Rivers with shiny bridges, green lawns, and beautiful flowers are all
along the way.

I found a world of mine on those walks. It seemed I can put all my
problems on the wide horizon and never fill it up. I wanted to be like
that.

## How I found interest in Math

Math appeals to me more than ever. I studied math to get rid of the
stress of other subjects. Math is so beautiful, so strict, yet so
flexible.

I studied maths at the organization Xueersi. The teacher is very smart.
He can calculate numbers fast as lightning. He is young and skinny. He
always smiles and he never talks about anything other than math in his
classes.

I studied complex numbers, calculus, and vector there. I felt as if I
was going into a great new world when I study math. My skills improved
really fast these days.

How the first 10 days of 2020 was

On 2020.1.1 I went to Daning park to play. I saw many young children,
but not one as old as me.

On 1.7-1.9, we finally had the test. I got a good score, mainly because
I got 129 in Chinese. I was really lucky that time.

These were the days when everything was happening at once. It was the
climax of 9th-grade.

The winter holiday I was waiting for finally came.

But then covid came.
