---
title: "Everyday Life in USTC"
date: Tue Feb 01 2022 09:58:01
type: journal
---
A spare day allows me to write a little about my everyday life in Hefei.

One thing I still remember is fruits. There\'s a fruit store on the east
campus just beside the cafeteria, so every time I finished lunch, I\'d
go there and pick something. The foods in Hefei are salty, so it\'s good
to have something sweet and juicy. The fruits aren\'t expensive, they
usually cost me no more than 15 yuan. There were apples, bananas, water
lemon, kiwi fruit, oranges. The melon is sold in slices. So you pick up
a slice and walk over to the counter, and the man would cut it out for
you. You needn\'t go home and cut the fruit peel the fruit yourself. You
can just buy one slice at a time, which is about 3 yuan.

I quickly became fond of eating fruits. After I bought the fruit, you
know, the roads outside were pretty crowded, I would walk east down a
path that leads to a quieter place. The east part of the east campus is
mostly apartments, and it seemed pretty much like a park. There are few
people, and most of those people are old men and women. It is a pretty
pleasant place. There are lots of trees and lawns to walk on.

Walk a little farther and there is the USTC kindergarten. You can see
some old man reading his newspaper while waiting for their grandson and
granddaughter at around noon. Under the shade of trees sometimes you can
see a fat cat. But if you walk too near, the cat will frantically run
away to some other places he considered safer. Eating fruit under these
trees is enjoyable.

Sometimes there are a group of old men and women who brought a large bag
with them. They pick up trash as they walk around. They are the
volunteers who help make the campus clean.

I also liked the nighttime snacking. It isn\'t anything like the
nighttime snacks in my high school, believe me. Every night around 11 pm
some stalls will arrive on Feixi Road. The road there was lighted up and
bustling with noise and excitement. Their smells can lure just about
anybody. There are stinky tofu, kebabs, stewed pear, and cold noodles.
The foods are sour and spicy with strong flavors. But when you grow so
frustrated with math and physics and still had to prepare for the tests,
eating here is a good option to empty your mind.

The library is on the west side of the cafeteria. It is usually crowded
with students, and hard to find a seat since students always occupy
seats. Then a little north is a cafe called USTC 1958. The cafe is
really expensive and popular among students and teachers. The cafe
mainly sells cakes, and one little cake and costs 30 yuan, more than
average eating prices for a whole day. You can seat there as long as you
want without ordering anything. I usually rest there for a while.
There\'s also free water and sugar and a toilet inside.

In warmer weather people chat outside. When winter arrives people
usually sit inside to avoid the chill.

I saw a lot of familiar people inside the cafe. Once I saw Mr. Ye and
his wife having a cup of coffee there. Mr. Ye is the teacher for
Electromagnetism. He is a scholar of much knowledge and erudition.
Another time I saw the assistant teacher of my physics class there with
his girlfriend.

Beside the cafe, there is the statue of Guo, the founder of USTC. He
stood tall. There are many children playing beside the statue.

Walk to the west and, right in the middle of the east campus is School
of the Gifted Young. It is a small building of only 4 stories. There is
a tiny computer lab and library inside.

Then to the north side of the east campus, there\'re two buildings. One
is for the math and economy department, another is for the department of
Earth and Space Sciences. They both have 16 stories. The Economy
Department is on the lower floors of the math building. You can find the
professors who taught your math classes on the top floors of the math
building. Mr. Cheng and Mr. Sheng are both on the fifteenth floor of
that building. You can hear the professor discussing their questions
from the corridor in that building.

I really liked the earth & space building. On the sixteenth floor of
that building, there\'s a platform where you can see the roads outside.
It was especially beautiful when the sun went down the west, and give
all the cars and roads a reddish and goldish color. There is the
hospital and the Anhui restaurant. The city center of Hefei is really
crowded and dirty, tall buildings are everywhere.

On the other side, the whole east campus is visible. The paths look like
blood vessels, filled with people, bikes, cars going here and there.

They are doing experiments on that opening platform, something about
lasers, so the door soon became locked and I could no longer go on that
platform. On some nights you can see a green beam that shoots out of the
top of the earth & space building and you know they are doing
experiments there.

There are just so many things going on on campus. Some people say I do
not like to take part in activities. That is true, of course. I hadn\'t
taken part in many activities throughout the semester. I had only
attended the singing party at the end of December. But walking around
the campus is all the same. They are just two different ways of
relaxation, and I do not care too much about that.
