---
title: "Finding My Identity"
date: Thu Jan 19 2023 20:42:54
type: journal
---
I have such controversial thoughts these days. I think that I adapted
pretty well to USTC. I don\'t know why I am thinking that.

What I think is that, basically, I think I know what to do at USTC. I
mean, I even think I am pretty well off there. I don\'t even think there
would be a problem if it wasn\'t for the covid restrictions and mass
testing. The only thing would be that I was kinda bored. But that
doesn\'t matter cause I had been feeling bored for half a decade. I
think I got used to that kind of life and identity now.

If I am back in USTC right now, I would be living in my house on the
32nd floor and preparing for my exams. Then I would try coding and doing
cool stuff about computer science. I mean, I don\'t even see a problem
there, strangely.

I know exactly what to do in China. I know exactly what to do at USTC. I
found my identity. I can follow the path down the road. I don\'t need to
think that much. I will achieve my goals.

I don\'t know what to do if I am in another Chinese university, like
those universities with equal gender ratios. I seriously don\'t. But we
like USTC, and we don\'t talk about them.

I mean, back then, when I was saying USTC sucks, I didn\'t even know
what it feels like outside in this unfriendly world. USTC isn\'t
friendly in some aspects, but there is a way to solve these problems and
get along with life, right?

I don\'t know. I will probably see this post, like, one year later and
see what I would be thinking.

But I am here, and there is no going back.

1 Studying CS courses

2 Doing school work

3 Running and hiking

4 (Optional) Expanding my own blog and doing fiction and film reviews

That\'s it. I would be fine in my undergrad years

Back then, in middle school, when I desperately wanted to know the
outside world, I couldn\'t. I learned to adapt to the learning
environment and everything.

\"The bridge is crossed, so stand and watch it burn. We\'ve passed the
Point of no return.\"

What I would be doing back in USTC is seemed well off.

I build this fantasy in my imagination, and it is wrong.

I need to find a new community here.
