---
title: "Green City in Shanghai"
date: Tue Jul 27 2021 08:00:00
type: shanghai
---
If one day I can earn enough money, the first thing I will do is to buy
a villa in Green City. Located in the north of the Pudong district,
Green City is the biggest international community in Shanghai and an
ideal place to live in.

Being one of the richest communities in Shanghai, Green City is known
for its low density of people and high quality of life.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/284822461-9c5e632e-217f-4cf9-a8d0-2970c904cbb6.png){style="width:80.0%"}\
I live in Zhangjiang High-tech Park so I usually go there from Yunshan
Road. On the way between Longdong Avenue and Jinxiu Road, there is a
small river, some luxurious houses, and a park in construction. There
are no people and cars, yet the trees are in good order. I could see far
on that road and there aren't any tall buildings along the way. The
roads are neat and organized. Everything is still. There are no
interfering roads in two kilometers.

When I got on the bridge that crossed the river I saw the moon shining
brightly in the sky. I could clearly see the paths along with the river
and feel the calmness of the river. Its surface is smooth and takes in
everything from above. The tall trees on two sides of the river and the
streetlight that shows the way are in reflection. That is a time when I
feel true to myself and free again, away from boundaries and pressure in
my daily life.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/284822474-bf6b4130-4f60-4053-a9f8-d6a12b3f88c9.png){style="width:80.0%"}

It usually takes 40 minutes to walk to Jinxiu Road and another 15
minutes to arrive at Biyun Road. There is a shopping center where I can
buy a bottle of water in Carrefour or eat dinner.

They were constructing in later parts of Yunshan Road. They were
building line 18. I do not know when it will be finished. I hope it
would be finished sooner for I was counting on it to go to Yangpu
district a lot quicker that way. But I may not be in Shanghai by the
time it is finished.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/1d79ab03-f7a6-4ebe-8988-203f000f977c){style="width:80.0%"}

Green City is great for sport, too. There is a Decathlon and a stadium
east of the shopping mall. Besides the stadium, there are also lots of
restaurants. I remember Italian and American restaurants selling their
local food. The food seems strange to me and as I am not interested in
eating as much as I am interested in walking, I usually eat a simple
meal at the shopping center.

There is a swimming pool and as I walked through the stadium I could
clearly see it. On my right side, there is a soccer field. I walked past
and came to Lantian Road. The subway station is on Yanggao Road, about
300 meters from me. I turned right and there is a park. The park looks
small but it is long and really beautiful.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/8e837dfd-5f66-4365-84dd-a1654fb562dc){style="width:80.0%"}

If you walk along Biyun Road to Hongfeng Street and keep walking, you
may find a path leading into a small river. There is an art museum along
the river. The museum is designed for ancient Chinese clothing and a
woman takes a picture of you on a seat if you want. The picture is taken
and sent for free. The food and drinks in that art museum are really
expensive. There is a library in the museum.

Keep on to the path on the side of the river and there is an office
park. I entered it from small paths leading up from the river. There is
a pond inside it and there are many companies. The environment inside is
really good.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/0ac8e9ab-4bc5-4d23-a89b-9cd2d4e5ba60){style="width:80.0%"}

On the intersection of Hongfeng Road and MingYue Road, there are two
markets, one big and one small. From there you can buy a lot of exported
things. There is a bakery inside the big market called City Shop. There
are different types of milk from Australia, America, and all over the
world in City Shop. There are also different types of snacks-chocolates,
biscuits-with no Chinese written on them. I usually come alone and don't
have much money or space in my bag for these things, so I usually just
buy water to drink.

There are bars and restaurants along Hongfeng Road. But it is far from
the restaurants in the city center. They are just small restaurants and
are much quieter.

I see lots of foreigners talking in bars and restaurants, people with
white hair and mustache, young men with blonde hair, laughing and
drinking. None of them are too noisy. The restaurants are not crowded
but rather comfortable.\
![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/60555d79-8f8a-4a44-a692-69fd5020a6c5){style="width:80.0%"}

Then it was usually time for me to return home. As I went through the
gardens and villas, I couldn't help but admire them. On Mingyue Road the
roads are well-built and trees grow on both sides of the street. It is
always pleasant to walk between tall trees. On the smaller roads, there
are chairs, and sitting there, I could see the schools and houses on
either way of the street. There were some people coming and I saw that a
father riding bike with his son and telling him not to be naughty. I saw
an elder woman returning home from shopping.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/a32fc141-e80e-45c2-8545-6d0adaf0ce98){style="width:80.0%"}

I wanted to remain there all day. There is so much to see. What
impressed me is the beauty of life. Green City is the best neighborhood
in Shanghai, but everything is so expensive. It is not only a green and
beautiful place but also a part where the culture is diverse, and life
can be peaceful and enjoyable.
