---
title: "My Journey in Reading"
date: Mon Sep 10 2018 18:08:06
type: journal
---
## My Experience in Reading

Today is approximately three years since I first started to be
interested in reading. That was in fifth grade when my primary school
held a program called Readathon.

I described my attitude toward reading in fourth-grade in an
autobiography:

"I didn't like reading at all. I could only read books that only have
four lines on a page. My parents made me do it, and I thought it was
boring."

Here's the feeling inside me when I went to the library:

"Seeing so many books made me kind of scared and amazed; I was hoping to
find a good book when I spotted Junie B. Jones Aloha-ha-ha on a shelf. I
got interested in the title of this book, so I borrowed it and started
to read it.

When I started reading, I found out that this book is so funny. There
were almost twenty lines on a page. I was so surprised and proud that I
could read forty-five pages in one day, five times than before."

Reading is not a thing to be forced. One must be interested in reading
in order to learn. For example, when my mother forced me to read in
fourth grade, I didn't like reading at all. However, when I was
interested myself, I read so much that I couldn't believe it myself.

\*\*Note of author re-reading this material at 2023 in university, I
practically hate everything that is assigned to me, even till now.
However, I find a strange passion in certain things I came across, like
Linux and frontend development

But how to be interested in reading? Don't start with 300 hundred-page
novels or classics with words all over the pages, start with simple
books that make you interested, and every time when you start a new
series, increase the level a little bit. After weeks, months, and years,
you will certainly be surprised. I was in fifth grade when I read Junie
B., a first-grade level book. I was even impressed that I read a book
with only fifteen lines, forty-five pages a day. Funny, isn't it?
However, I read the Narnia series less than a year after it, and the
Harry Potter series after 18 months.

Don't be too happy, of course. All of these achievements are based on
the genuine love of the book. Don't care about your speed, but how much
you can get, what you can learn, and what the author wants to tell us
after reading a book. Don't be ashamed that you aren't the best reader
in class. Reading is a long-term activity.

After reading one of Junie B.'s books, I also borrowed A to Z mysteries,
Magic Tree House, and Ready Freddy. I finished one book from each
series. I was amused because of the fun it brought to me, the wonderful
adventures in these books.

As the saying goes: A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies. The
man who never reads lives only one. I believe it because, as a matter of
fact, I think I have already lived more than one life. Every time I
opened a book, I became the main character, and I laughed and cried with
them. I live the lives of the character in the book. Sometimes, I was so
into one book that it was seconds after I closed the book that I
realized that I am in my house, not in one of those adventures.

Junie B is a funny series about Junie B.'s kindergarten and first-grade
life. I laughed so much when reading it my stomach hurts. It describes
life in a first grader's eyes vividly and its language amazed me. I
still used some of them in my compositions.

It is a really easy series for me now. Last year I went to a Barnes &
Noble bookstore in California when I found it. I read a book again in
about 10 minutes. So don't be disappointed. You can improve much much
faster than you ever dreamed.

That was the start of my reading career. The next series is Magic Tree
House. I think many people know this series so I am not going into
details, just to talk about the series in my eyes.

I am now going to tell you a thing more even more hilarious. I couldn't
understand what the first book is about when I first started to read it.
It was not until I read it the second time that I began to understand.
Then I was amused by the adventures of Jack and Annie, who saved so many
people from disasters and helped the great man to success. I began to
understand the rest of the series after I finished the first one.

I read the whole Magic Tree House series, all 57 of them. It almost
became a tradition for me to borrow a book from the school library
before lunch, read through the lunch break, and read through the class
break in the afternoon. I usually finish it before school ends and
devote my time at home doing homework, studying math, and doing
exercises.

After winter vacation, I didn't enjoy some other book series. They have
the same style and it was so boring reading them. However, I later found
some series as good as Junie B series.

I read many mystery novels. A mystery involves a puzzle to be sold
(usually a crime). The author introduces the crime and gives clues to
the readers. The clues give readers an impression of the crime.

Mystery usually has a complicated process of analysis. It makes a book
fascinating to read when readers are trying to figure out the truth. But
also in this process of solving the crime, the author gave the
characters a detailed description, usually concerning their reactions
and attitudes toward the crime. This often shows the personalities of
people and the meanings behind them.

Now I've read many books, from easy ones to thousand-page ones. I have
also read many young adult books, and fantasies. Reading is a process to
be enjoyed by everyone, to remove the stress in everyday life.
