---
title: "My Sixth-grade Life"
date: Wed Feb 01 2017 16:24:32
type: journal
---
I've always wanted to write a memoir. There are no better ways to record
your life, the ups and downs, and what was worth remembering. But after
eighth grade scarce was my time. So I procrastinated for a long time.
This is the memoir of sixth grade. It may be childish and naive but it
was how I really felt.

## Prologue

After I returned to China with an excellent memory of my year and
summer, I went to Shibei Middle School.

Things had been harder and different between middle school and
elementary school. Life now isn't as good as my previous life. And I am
going to tell you about my life here.

## My New Busy Life

When I came back from America, I rested for two days. I came home at
midnight and was not tired at all because I slept a lot on the plane. I
turned on the lights and read a book by Ann M Martin. I didn't look up
for three hours when reading and realized that it is morning by the time
I finished.

I played for two days. On the third day, which is pretty hot, we moved.
We lived far from my middle school, so my family and I decided to move
to a nearer house. The new house is on the twenty-ninth floor. Then I
went to the military training in our school. It's so boring that I
didn't want to do it. The teacher makes us do things like calling
numbers one by one and standing. It is so stupid and dumb. Later I read
in a newspaper that Americans don't have to do military training. I kind
of wished I was born in America so that I could skip military training.
Then finally the last day arrived. We had a competition between classes
to see which class does the best in the training. To my surprise, our
class won out of nine classes and got a prize. Then the new semester
started.

There are many differences. I used to finish my homework at five or six
o'clock in the evening in primary school, I usually do some math
problems late in the evening and often finish them and start playing at
seven or eight o'clock. Now it had been so different. The first Monday,
I went to a geometry class. It was already eight-thirty when I was home.
Then I did all my homework until ten.

We have three math classes every day. The teachers don't use the
original math textbook but give us tests, which were much harder. We
have two math teachers. Mr. Chen taught the extra class Monday and
Tuesday. Mr. Xu taught the extra class Wednesday and Thursday and the
normal math class. He is very strict.

We had a math test every two days. And this was just the beginning. Our
middle school is so good at math that every year we got the most prizes
in math competitions in Shanghai.

I used to read an English book a day, which I now tried to do, but
couldn't bear it with the homework. I had more and more and more
homework than before and the English books I read are harder. So far, I
couldn't read 366 books, the same amount of days this year, if the
teachers keep the homework like that. I wanted the average amount to
reach one book a day. And there was another solution to this problem,
work until ten or eleven every day.

There was another serious problem. I wasted too much time on the
computer. The teachers always put the details of homework online, and I
have to find it using the computer. Pressure began to rise in my heart.
And, as I found out, that if one day there was not much homework, I will
never waste time on the computer, but if there was too much of them, I
would waste a lot of time on screen. I hate to admit it, but I was
sometimes a procrastinator and would postpone work. After that, I became
angry at myself and was often not in a very good mood many days.

How I am jealous of the elementary school students! I also wanted to be
in Smic Middle School. I thought I did the wrong choice for middle
school. I got myself in here and will never get out, homework and
pressure will only increase in the following years. Then look at Smic
Middle School, they went home by four while we went home by six. They
finish homework by six or seven while we do it by nine. They have an
easy math test once a week or less. We have four hard math tests or more
a week and the teacher said that we are going to have eight tests a week
later on.

I had a hard time writing Chinese compositions, not English, of course.
I am good at English, especially after reading so many books. But I had
read little Chinese books, and our teacher let us write an essay every
day in Chinese. I always waste time on it, so that's why I did the
homework so late.

## The Division

We have an English song every week. I like "what makes you beautiful"
best. I also like "one direction".

We had a class song competition. Our class chose roar. We practiced hard
but only got third prize.

I didn't pass the Intermediate Interpretation contest, which is of
course hard. I didn't get a prize in either English or Chinese, and I
felt bad. Luckily, I got a good score on the midterm examination.

One of our students got chickenpox, and our class gets separated. Our
autumn outing was canceled. Most of my classmates are happy to hear it,
but I am not. I still want to go to the autumn outing.

In my class, it is so hard to be the highest score on quizzes. After
every test, the teacher writes our rank in a corner of the test paper.
It is a real keen competition in my class. There was a stark contrast in
primary school, but there's isn't much difference between the best and
the worst one now. There are thirty-two students in my class. In the
math test, I went from the first one (except that many students are also
my score) to the twentieth-first.

But I liked one thing, which is there is little math homework. Mr. Xu
thinks that our class and class six---the best two classes in sixth
grade in our school---should be divided into two classes to separate the
good ones and the not-too-good ones.

This good thing turned upside down when we started to divide into two
classes, which is definitely the worst idea ever invented. We started to
have much math homework since then.

I was divided into the fast class, and Mr. Xu said that the worst one in
the last class will go to the slow class. I am likely the worst in
geometry, while the fast classes teaching about lines and angels and all
that. Later, Mr. Xu said that we would be learning about congruent
triangles and similar triangles. I was about to be kicked out.

There's a sick feeling in my stomach every time Mr. Xu walked in. I felt
nervous talking to him because he talks with a blaming tone. He hates
two things, cram class and feeling too well. That's right in some ways,
but he kind of goes too far. That's math class becomes my worst class
ever since.

When someone laughed Mr.Xu would say, 'What's funny?' He would then let
that person stand up and ask them questions, even if that person didn't
do anything.

He thought that when any of us smiling, we didn't focus. But how would a
person focus so long under great pressure?

We had a test. It is about parallel lines and equivalent angles. Mr. Xu
threatened us that whoever gets too low in the test will go to the slow
class. I think I did really badly on the test. I hope the score will
never be announced.

Mr. Chen never goes too far. I don't know why. Maybe he just don't like
dealing with people.

The score was finally announced and it looks like a nightmare. I kind of
shivered all through it. Finally, my score was announced and I got the
lowest score--the teacher announces the worst score at last. I got
'25+'. That was the worst test I took since I went to Shibei Middle
School. I am lucky. The teacher didn't write my real rank.

## Final Exams

It's time to leave the division and the math classes to come back to
final exams.

In primary school, there are just three subjects (Chinese, Math, and
English). But now, there are also Geography, Computer, and Science. I am
also finishing my 366 books.

I was not just busy, I was restless and frustrated. Though I kind of
adjusted my life here, I couldn't bear it. I needed to prepare for the
expository and narrative writings; review the ordinary math, ('cause we
are too fast and I got less than eighty on the mock test and I was not
satisfied with the result); do the computer homework; go over geography,
and science. Moreover, I need to spend another half hour every day
reading a book.

In the last, I got a bad score in Chinese and the minor subjects. I just
wasn't accustomed to so many subjects. Many of my classmates studied
physics early and they knew all about science.

Time is really slow when you want it to be fast, and really fast when
you want it to be slow.

The first semester of sixth grade ended just like that, marking the end
of one-eighth of my middle school life.
