---
title: "Riverside Promenade in Puxi"
date: Wed Aug 01 2021 19:41:09
type: shanghai
---
Riverside promenade is a great place for walking and to get a splendid
view. One can always find shelter and water on the way. There are two
sides of Huangpu River, so there are two routes to go.

When I lived in Zhongxing Road two years ago I always went walking on
the Puxi side of the route. My home was about 3 to 4 kilometers from the
Garden Bridge on Suzhou Creek, but it often took me an hour to get
there. The reason is that Puxi is crowded and there are so many
motorcycles around. There are too many small roads and I always had to
wait for the light to turn green.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/8f80fc34-dfa3-4c2c-a379-dc94e12aee7b){style="width:80.0%"}

Garden Bridge

When I lived in my previous home I had been to almost everywhere around.
There is not a street I did not know in a distance less than 5
kilometers from my home. I found, among those dirty streets, that the
riverside Promenade is the best place to go for walking.

On the weekends I would go walking south of Garden Bridge. Sometimes it
is crowded there, especially when there is a festival. So many people
were there that I couldn't find a seat to enjoy the view. But that is
about the only place crowded. Walk southwards and gradually it becomes
quieter. Go further south, about 4 kilometers and there are few people
in sight. Then I would see Nanpu Bridge. As I was always tired when
arriving at Nanpu Bridge, I would take line 4 home.

Sometimes on Sunday afternoon, I went to cram classes in Xueersi. The
place is on Dalian Road. Since it starts at 3 pm I would go out at 10 in
the morning and have a walk. First I would walk to Garden Bridge. Then I
would turn northward. If you walk northward of Garden Bridge there is
half a kilometer where you cannot see Huangpu River since the route
along the river is under construction. There is a hotel along the way
which is very expensive and beautiful, where I usually took a rest
inside. Then after walking half a kilometer I came to a park. Near the
park is a subway station: International Cruise Terminal, line 12. The
park is very beautiful. People are playing some game involving jumping
and swinging inside, but that I took no interest in. There are those
glasses, on which you can see the history of the International Cruise
Terminal, including some famous people. The glass is transparent and I
saw the tallest buildings in Pudong through them. At night I also saw
the building behind me reflected, and it looks like it's in the air in
Pudong. Anyway, that is really funny.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/54aaa521-812b-4463-86aa-bd1182df020b){style="width:80.0%"}
![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/1dc5251a-1a3e-42b0-b653-2cfdd46db86b){style="width:80.0%"}

The Park in the North of The Bund

Walking further northward (or maybe to the east) along Huangpu River, I
came to the Qinhuangdao ferry. I walked out to the intersection of
Dalian Road and Yangshupu Road. Line 4 is there and I went the rest of
the way to Xueersi by subway.

Northward of Qinhuangdao Ferry is Yangpu District. When I first went
there it was under construction and very deserted. But after a year,
when I was in ninth grade, I found it good to walk after the road along
the river was finished. Old people come here to see the history of the
industry of Shanghai. Young people go there for fashion, as there are
some clothing shops. There are lots of children's playgrounds and
slides, swings. Little children jumped all over laughing with their
parents, who escort them there. I came here because I needed to take a
rest from studying and I was just too bored.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/5e05528a-915b-43d1-993b-579eaf6ee7cb){style="width:80.0%"}

Under Yangpu Bridge

There are many places to eat like Burger King, Macdonald on the way.

Walk another 6 kilometers and you come to Fuxing Island. The place is
separated by a river. That is why it is called an island. You can go
there taking line 12.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/3c758621-8ebb-4ae2-b2de-39a6ed82d816){style="width:80.0%"}

Fuxing Island
