---
title: "Riverside Promenade in Pudong"
date: Tue Aug 17 2021 18:08:09
type: shanghai
---
When I didn't want to 4 kilometers to Garden Bridge, I usually went on
line 8 to the China Art Museum. It is seven stops from my previous home.
I walked along the Pudong Part of the route.

The Pudong part is more beautiful and better constructed. There are
air-conditioned little houses facing the river to rest every kilometer.
Southward of China Art Museum is Lupu Bridge. Many parks are connected
together. On sunny days many children with their parents go have a
picnic there. I didn't find any teenager like me, though.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/7328a4aa-2a0e-46c6-95ff-cfe8e08685d5){style="width:80.0%"}

Houtan Park, near Lupu Bridge

On rainy days or at night there ate fewer people. I walked along, only
occasionally seeing cyclers or joggers passing me. Qiantan park is good,
there are little ponds and many tall trees. I can always see far on my
way left, and during the night it feels like looking into the world at a
distance. I felt as if I am separated and alone.

Continue going to the south and I came across the Chuanyang River. The
small river is straight and runs straight to the sea. Then I knew I came
to Sanlin. Go across the bridge, and there is Oriental Sports Center,
where I could take line 8 back home.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/98890660-54da-4394-897e-c98cc3d3572d){style="width:80.0%"}

Beautiful parks at Qiantan

It is far lonelier at Qiantan, where there isn't a person in sight. When
I went there at night, the whole world was quiet and peaceful. I went
there by myself and kept looking at Puxi to see how much distance I had
covered. Xupu Bridge is 5 kilometers from Oriental Sports Center. After
that is Manlizui green space.

Don't try to stop at Xupu Bridge without calling a taxi beforehand, or
you get to walk a long way before finding the subway station. Problem
is, the road is under the highway and many trucks, motorcycles roam
past. Some parts of the pavement were under construction so when I was
there I needed to walk in the middle of the road. Sometimes there are
people arguing there. The place is really barren and I had a bad time
there. It is even better turning back than walking out at Xupu Bridge.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/4ad8b849-1302-4802-9637-d813991752e6){style="width:80.0%"}

Under Xupu Bridge

One summer day two years ago I was eager for an adventure, and I got on
line 5 and traveled to Xidu station to see Huangpu River there. That
experience wasn't pleasant. What I saw, instead of Huangpu River, are
many factories and villages on both sides of the river and there are no
paths along the river to walk comfortably.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/6593d14a-af1a-4d65-b6c7-91a7615d1425){style="width:80.0%"}

How it looks like in Fengxian District

On the Pudong side, there is a lot to see between Nanpu Bridge and
Qichangzhan Ferry. The river travels around the Lujiazui Area, and you
may find yourself circling around the tallest towers in Pudong if you
walk Northward from Nanpu Bridge. The place is shaped like a mouth.

There is a tower near Nanpu Bridge on the Puxi side that shows you the
temperature. It is tall and I could even see it on my balcony in my
previous home. It is about 8 kilometers from my previous home to the
temperature building.

There are many tall buildings on the way, including Citigroup and
Shangrila Hotel. There are sculptures of different kinds of animals.
There is also another sculpture showing many little men walking on a
plank and trying to balance themselves. On the left side, there are
boating clubs. There are many expensive restaurants along the way. The
Pudong side of the route ends at Yangpu Bridge.

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/c2533781-b30b-443f-978b-3f3d8e08561a){style="width:80.0%"}

Sculptures

![image](https://blog.jimchen.me/a609ce8f-ecda-4202-9bf0-eebd2b9af4f0){style="width:80.0%"}

Little houses to rest

Walking in the daytime is really fine. You can see the beautiful scenery
more closely. It is always joyous to walk in the sunshine. It is also
safer for you won't get lost or trip over something too dark to see. But
night has its own charms. Andrew Webber said, "nighttime sharpens,
heightens each sensation." Though this is a song in an opera, it is
proved. When you walk along the river at night, everything is more
still. In the daytime there are many things to observe, there are just
too much light and sound, filling your ears and eyes. In the night there
are no more lights than distant street lamps, no more sound to hear, and
one's ears gave way to a lot of different, interesting sounds. There is
much more to be discovered along the river.

I used to have a hard time walking around Zhongxing Road. It was so hard
to be alone, there are people everywhere. The street is full of
motorcycles even at 10 or 11 pm.

Now I live in Zhangjiang High Technology park, and I always walk to the
suburban if I go wandering around. It was deserted even at 9 pm. There
are few buses and taxis, and stores are shut down. It is so hard to get
back. I couldn't walk to wherever I want because there are chances I
couldn't get back quickly. There are few lights and people in the
streets at night.

I like always like wandering around just for fun. It is one of my
hobbies now. Sometimes I want to be like Strider, but there is a big
difference between what you want to do for fun and your occupation. And
anyway, walking in those deserted, dangerous place on a dark night is
not pleasant and there are always chances for one to get injured
anywhere along the way.
