---
title: "Start of a New Semester"
date: Mon Mar 04 2024 08:15:22
type: journal
---
So I am back in USTC for a new semester.

## Meaningful Things to Do

So I tried thinking about meaningful things to do. I mean, for a thing
to be meaningful, it better be cumulative. For example, gaming isn't
meaningful because gaming today doesn't make your next day better at
all, and the skill of a human being in gaming is limited, meaning AI is
far superior.

Other things are debatable, in my opinion. For example, it is debatable
whether learning extensively about a new subject (like pursuing a PhD)
is meaningful or not. For one, it is cumulative and after studying that
deeply enriches your knowledge of that field. However, on the other
hand, maybe like the new knowledge studied, if not applied to a job,
isn't even worth the pain of studying them. If you are an expert in some
not so popular fields, there might be no opportunities for showing off
even, and the goal at the end isn't meaningful.

I do think language learning is a meaningful thing, though. So like
imagine if I don't know English, that would be devastating. Or if I
don't know Chinese, ahh, I would probably lose first-hand engagement in
the culture and couldn't even communicate with people around me.
Language is pretty much base to all the things in my life, and it is
largely underestimated in terms of importance. But learning a third
language is not as significant as the first two, one of which is my
mother tongue, the other being the de facto language in the world.
Still, even if it is not as significant, it's still a reasonably
fulfilling thing to do. Mainly I want to learn languages like Japanese,
Russian, French, German, etc. But like learning 4 or 5 languages is
close to impossible with a regular schedule or hard schoolwork or
demanding job. Maybe like learning only one more language is quite
satisfying for me.

Other meaningful things include sports and musical instruments, but they
are not as important as learning a language, in my opinion.

## Freelancing

I feel like I want to take on a freelancing job. I found that for a
full-stack developer, actually earning 20 dollars an hour is pretty
easy. So I tried to do the math and calculated that for a decent life in
Hefei, like 700 dollars a month should be sufficient, which equates to
about around 150-200 dollars earnings a week. So like I can only work
one day freelancing for web dev or operating system or anything, then
having 6 days off, while still maintaining pretty well-off lives here in
Hefei.

The main thing isn't about the earnings, it's like currently I am still
using my parent's money, meaning that they constantly try to monitor and
censor my activities, which is really annoying. I mean I can't really
complain too much since it's their money, but they are seriously
annoying to me. I hope for the day that I can become self-sufficient to
come sooner. If I am self-sufficient probably I won't need my parents
anymore. However, logically speaking I shall still pay back in return to
my parents, since they brought me up, but this is probably something I
shall do like after the age of 35 or 40 years old, when my parents got
very old, to care for them or hire an aunt to care for them or whatever.

The fact that I am not self-sufficient is deeply troubling, and maybe,
like after I go to grad school, hopefully as there are salaries or
whatever, and I work part-time as a freelancer, then I can stop
requesting any money from parents, hooray!

It's not like my parents don't have much money, in fact, they are pretty
well-off among their peers and in Shanghai, having 2 apartments in
Zhangjiang High-tech Park, each one worth millions of dollars. But
reliance brings unfreedom.

## Thinking about my Freelancing Life

So if I drop school right now, and go off freelancing here in Hefei,
working 1 day a week, hopefully self-sufficient with my MERN stack
skills. I have six days off, which is practically all the time. In fact,
if I go freelancing it doesn't matter where I work, and Shanghai
definitely isn't a good choice because of its relatively high living
standards in China. Maybe some smaller cities will do. Hefei is not a
bad choice anyways, living here on 5000 RMB a month is more than enough.

I don't really worry about stability, since I think I can code
full-stack for at least 30 years. I mean, I am willing to learn and
work, and I don't demand lots of money.

Moreover, I can stay home all the time, and I can go isolated. I mean, I
can still go out and play if I want, only it's not necessary, which is
awesome. I can still go out a few times a year, and probably at dawn,
where there are no people outside.

I also have the whole day off to me, and I can start learning new
languages 24/7. I can probably pick up one language every half year. So
if I work like this, then I will probably be equipped with 6 more of the
world's most popular languages in like 3 years, which is so intriguing.
I am mainly interested in studying languages of developed regions like
Europe and Japan, or special countries like Russia, and not that much of
Africa or Southern Asia.

That does sound interesting and alluring but of course, I won't do that,
since that is far beyond the social norm, and I haven't had such
personal decision experiences. Maybe like when I am 35 or 40 years old I
can have more freedom in personal decisions. It is too risky, like
dropping out of school. I still need my college degree, else since I
don't have a high school diploma, I will probably be a middle school
grad, lol.

Anyways, literally speaking, my parents don't know what is best for me.
They are very misleading in terms of judgment, and often control my mind
to do things. I don't blame them though. My parents are awesome people,
and worked extremely hard to gain a social status like this through the
poverty years 30 years ago in China, climbing up the social ladder from
a poor worker's family in remote rural towns, to having 2 apartments in
the tech hub of Shanghai. They are definitely more impressive than I
ever could be. For me to match their achievements I probably have to be
a billionaire in Silicon Valley.

## Back to USTC

I walked back to USTC. It seemed awfully weird here, with so many
students around, that I felt a sense of nervousness even. I feared
school, and I feared socializing. My parents also say I am quite
arrogant in the eyes of other people. No.Â This is wrong. I mean, I am a
FOSS and Linux fanatic, but that's who I am. There is no changing that.
I want to show my personality and uniqueness in socializing, right? I
want to show the true self instead of pretending to be someone whom I
hate, right?

I mean, I felt like I don't want to be demanded to do something. I have
the right and I don't owe any people, well, maybe except for my parents,
since they brought me up for the first 18 years. Thinking about
parenting, it is extremely time and energy-consuming, which is part of
the reason my mom worked a light job. Just in terms of money spending
and emotional support, that is more than a full-time job. I remembered
countless times when my mom was tired yet still tries to think about me
first, and try to make me happy and well cared for. I remembered my mom
trying to find resources for me in every part of my academic journey,
and that was really touching. However, I am a legal adult now, and I
know better for myself. It is maybe not the best for me, but I need to
make my own decisions. Also, I don't owe any unknown people anything. My
parents always say I need friends, and I shall treat strangers with
enthusiasm and contact them to make friends. However, I definitely
disagree. I treat strangers with respect, and other than that I treat
them the way I want. I decide who to contact and which person to. It is
my right to decide I want isolation, or my right to decide to be in a
crowd, long as it doesn't affect other people negatively. It is my right
to stay up all night and sleep all day, although putting my own health
at risk, but I assume that it is my own decision, right?

I was, and still am, an extremely cautious person. Well, maybe not as
cautious as some Chinese students around me, but still, I am easily
brainwashed with fear and hatred about something. When my parents taught
me fire and knife was dangerous, I refuse to use them even today,
relying on a kettle pot to cook noodles and rice porridge. I always
feared teachers, even though sometimes they know no better than me,
especially those in high school. However, because of the fear I didn't
argue back one word at any teacher as long as I could remember, only
occasionally trying to explain my own standpoint. It's the amount of
mind control that they have on me, that I deeply want to get rid of,
even though most times they are correct.

## Motivation

As I begin this new semester I have probably the lowest motivation in
the history of my life. I couldn't think about a reason to push forward.
For example, there is this operating system and database course. I am
already pretty much experienced in MongoDB and Sqlite and have used
PostgreSQL for Invidious and Peertube and MediaCMS hosting. All I want
to do is try to read the source code and understand the main parts of
the database, for example, reading Sqlite or BerkeleyDB shall be
interesting practice for such a course. There is also tinydb and
smalldb, but that's not capturing the essentials of a database, not
having much data structures. Anyways, I hope the teacher just walks
through the main source code of a popular database, and that shall be
sufficient for this course. As of operating systems, I would expect to
develop all kinds of interesting programs on ArchLinux. It's just I am
really interested in this subject itself, but the course makes it
extremely boring for me. Finishing studying this course doesn't enhance
my skills anyways, only preparing for a crappy test. I don't think
studying such stuff is more meaningful than gaming.

Also along came procrastination, as anything I saw seemed to me more
interesting than studying and academics, particularly social media.
Sometimes I would want to be popular on social media, yet still
rejecting the idea since social media is proprietary and censored by the
government, and not DIY. My own instance gets no attention among people,
though. But I was just far more curious about society, and particularly
the trends of things that are not obvious, and thoughts not written, and
things not seen from the surface. Social medias give me far more stamina
than raw studying.

I stayed at home for a whole week, trying to evade everything. This is
the longest time I stayed at home as long as I could remember, the last
time being the covid quarantine, 7.14 to 7.21. I didn't remember staying
at home for one day since 2019 to mid-2023, other than that quarantine.
Even during covid, I would go restless at home and try every means to go
out and run and breathe fresh air. I just, well, changed. Before that
one whole week at home, I went out like only once every 3 days or so,
mostly late at night for walking and stretching my legs, and shopping
the necessary things and cleaning the trash. I don't want to face
anything, and wanted to go alone for peace and quietness. I actually
quite enjoy being immersed in my own digital world, and hope to do this
forever.

People say evading and shying off from real life is a bad idea, yet it
helps. Evading makes my emotions more controllable and myself feel more
comfortable. Facing everything directly is a bad idea because it just
makes things worse and unbearable. Anyway, this is supposed to be my own
choice, the same as procrastinating. If I want to do so, nobody has the
right to tell me not.

I tried running and it turned out I had been much slower than I
previously was just half a year ago. I could go sub 4:00 for several
kilometers without being too tired, but now I ran like 300 yards and was
out of breath, probably as a result of staying home too long. Anyways,
staying at home is also my own choice, and it is not anyone else's duty
to command me to go out. I decided running makes the person look older
and uglier these last few months, and it is still a topic I am debating
whether or not to do.

## Showing Off

Then there is the strange desire to show off. I mean it is downright
stupid to do so. Showing off brings nothing but a sense of fake pride,
and perhaps some dopamine. I wanted to use every means to show how
technically advanced I am, only trying to make a big fool out of myself.

I really don't understand the desire to show off, but I remembered this
as a need for several years. I wanted people to notice me, even as an
anonymous person on social media, to acknowledge my skills and
whatsoever. It is weird, perhaps because I am facing such a difficult
time at school, and losing all my confidence academically that I want to
try to get my skills verified for another way. It is still so stupid, I
mean, showing off doesn't increase my skills, it only makes me a clown.

## Looking Forward

Anyways, time shall pass, and I did grow a lot mentally these past few
months. Sometimes time is magical and changes everything, so it's best
to keep on and try to figure out what to do for the day.
