---
title: "The Pros and Cons of Playing Computer Games (and Why I Should QUIT)"
date: Thu Oct 13 2022 14:10:02
type: journal
---
## The Pros of Playing Computer Games

### NO!!!!!!!!!!!!

## The Cons of Playing Computer Games

### Gain nothing

Out of doing all activities, one gains nothing playing computer games. I
can learn about other people's lives, experiences, knowledge about life
reading books. I can learn about math and computer science watching
YouTube. Exercising can help build my body and relax. Doing housework
can help me feel comfortable. However, computer games have none of these
effects.

Computer games require little skill to understand and play. They are
simple and boring--everybody is alike in the game. You cannot learn
anything by playing computer games.

### Time consuming

Computer Games result in wasting much of my spare time. What's more, I
always play more than I intend to. For example, once I started playing
"zombsroyal", I usually can't stop and keep on playing for four hours.
Computer Games are simply too addicting, their effects just like drugs.
One can easily spend an entire day doing nothing and playing computer
games, and not even noticing time passing. I have just so much more time
to do other things if I quit computer games.

Some people might argue that "he is just tired," or he can't do anything
much in these hours besides playing computer games. This sounds very
strange and absurd. When I am playing video games, my brain is still
doing work--when I am playing "generals" or "2048", I am always thinking
about the strategies and how to win. A really tired person can't play
video games. Just taking a walk in the park, or reading a literature
book, or watching an inspirational video on YouTube, which usually takes
about only 1 hour or less, one can easily put the time to use!

### Long Recovery Period

After I play computer games, I always feel dizzy and disoriented--I need
to rest and cannot go straight back to my work. However, when I finished
walking, or reading English books, or sleeping, I go back to doing math
fully refreshed. Playing computer games consumes not only the time one
spends looking at the screen, but also puts one in a dysfunctional state
long after finishing. I cannot go back to studying after playing video
games. In fact, usually the whole day is wasted.

### Sleeping trouble

Playing games brings excitement. Playing games at night may affect one's
sleep. Sometimes game addicts will stay up to 12:00 pm to play games,
which causes significant distress the next day. Sleeping is really
important to one's well-being, and one's efficiency of learning math and
computer science.

### Harmful to eyes

Since computer games are so addicting, one usually spends so much time
looking at the screen without even blinking, which can be very harmful
to one's eyes. My eyes on August 2022 are 0.8 and 0.6, which aren't very
good. I should really take the matters seriously. Other computer
activities, like coding or watching YouTube, don't require one to keep
his eyes open all the time, leading to a less harmful effect on the
eyes. Doing outdoor activities are very good for the eyes, especially
after sitting in the classroom all day long.

### Harmful to Health

When I play games, I usually sit rigid for hours. I don't drink water or
go to the bathroom, which can have a negative effect on the body.

### Getting Isolated

Since playing games is something I can enjoy alone, I usually isolate
myself from society when playing video games. Thus, playing games stop
me from making friends and communicating with my schoolmates
effectively.

### Meaningless life

Since games are immersive and addictive, one may easily forget about
life altogether after spending much time on games--real life doesn't
matter that much, compared to the game. Instead of challenging and
trying to go through the difficulties--tests, homework, competition, one
tends to avoid and find a way of escaping, always into a game. One may
consider the game as an exit to all the sorrows and real hardships in
life. However, these problems always exist, and simply won't go away.
Thus, one adopts a negative attitude towards life and sneaks himself
away from it. One will also turn a blind eye to his relatives or
friends. Since the game is meaningless, one's life is meaningless as
well.

### Inappropriate behavior

After playing gun games, one will sometimes try out the actions used in
the games. One may constantly think about fighting--committing crimes
and murdering--instead of studying math and computer science. Sometimes
game addicts don't like to sit down in a classroom and study math
because they are too restless. Sometimes game addicts adopt the same
kind of behavior towards his classmates, which leads to violent
behaviors and him being hated by all. Since there are usually those
strange sounds in games, one may choose to imitate them after playing
too much. As a result, one may constantly speak profanity (words like
damn) and curse others. This is very inappropriate behavior, considered
uncivilized and uneducated.

### Limited ability

Since games are simple and human reaction speed is limited, computer
programs can easily outplay human players. You can just never win a very
good computer program in a game. Spending more time studying machine
learning and computer science can bring about far more success in video
games. Thus, it is meaningless (everything is limited by the game-maker
and players are manipulated) to play computer games yourself.

### Distracting others

Playing games usually includes a lot of mouse clicking or exclaiming,
which can really disturb other students around you who are trying to do
math. The music in games and the flashing light also make people feel
restless. This is really annoying to others who are trying to do
homework.

## Why I Should QUIT

It is obvious from the reasons above that the cons outweigh the pros. At
the same time, I obtain much more advantage from doing other activities.

### Another Approach to the Pros

#### Helps forget things

Try sleeping at 8, or 7 pm at night.

#### Instant reward

One really doesn't need to fill his brain with dopamine all day long.
Being excited causes multiple troubles for the brain itself.

#### React Faster

One really doesn't need to react faster to solve problems. Instead, one
should think deeply and thoroughly, and dedicate one's mind to the
knowledge in order to do that.
