---
title: "The Fault in Our Stars Book Review"
date: Thu Dec 27 2018 16:54:09
type: literature
---
The book brings us to Hazel Grace, a girl who has cancer and depression
and thinking her life has ended. But her life changed when she met
Augustus Waters in the cancer support group and fell in love with him.
Augustus suffered from cancer and had his leg cut off. Hazel recommended
An Imperial Affliction to Augustus. He was frustrated learning the novel
ends without a conclusion and used his one wish to go to Amsterdam to
meet the author, Peter Van Houten, to know about the ending of the book.

However, Peter surprised them by appearing drunken and didn't answer
their questions. Augustus confessed to Hazel his cancer has returned.
Back to America, Augustus called Hazel and Isaac to his pre-funeral to
give and eulogy and died soon after it. Van Houten went to Augustus'
funeral to apologize to Hazel.

Hazel received Augustus' letter for him from Lidewij, former assistant
of Van Houten. In the letter, Augustus said getting hurt was inevitable
and was happy with his choice. The book ended with Hazel saying she
loved her choices too.

## Extracts and Quotes from the Book

1.  My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations.

2.  Gus, my love, I cannot tell you how thankful I am for our little
    infinity. I wouldn't trade it for the world. You gave me a forever
    within the numbered days, and I'm grateful

3.  Right, of course. But you keep the promise anyway. That's what love
    is. Love is keeping the promise anyway.

4.  You realize that trying to keep your distance from me will not
    lessen my affection for you? All efforts to save me from you will
    fail.

5.  I'm in love with you, and I know that love is just a shout into the
    void, and that oblivion is inevitable, and that we're all doomed and
    that there will come a day when all our labor has been returned to
    dust, and I know the sun will swallow the only earth we'll ever
    have, and I am in love with you.

6.  The world is not a wish granting factory.

7.  But I will say this: When the scientists of the future show up at my
    house with robot eyes and they tell me to try them on, I will tell
    the scientists to screw off, because I do not want to see a world
    without him.

8.  Some infinities are bigger than other infinities.

## My Idea

The Fault in Our Stars is a heart-breaking book filled with humor that
makes you want to laugh and cry at the same time when reading it.

Cancer is so cruel. In the book The Tiger Rising, cancer killed Rob's
mother, leaving Rob unprotected and depressed. In this book, it
destroyed lives. Hazel Grace has cancer when she was thirteen and
suffered from it. As we can see, before she met Augustus, she thought
her life has ended, it was just that she hasn't died. And we can see how
depressed Hazel was. She'd give up her whole life for a few happy days.
Melancholy, frustrated, pessimistic was Hazel when she went into the
support group and met Augustus Waters.

However, once Hazel met Augustus at the support group, she instantly
discovered an attraction towards him because of his appearance. When
Hazel spoke to Augustus that human beings will be dead and there's no
one to remember them, a line she learned from An Imperial Affliction, it
created a bond between them, which made them inseparable.

Augustus asked Hazel to come to his house. When he gave Hazel his
favorite book The Price of Dawn. Then they watched V for Vendetta in the
basement. It was at this point that they became closer to each other and
the relationship between them began to develop. After the talk and the
exchange of books, they were not just normal friends, but close friends.
It was because they both have cancer and suffer from it. They share the
same experience while Hazel became depressed and Augustus didn't and
still enjoyed life. At this point, Hazel was looking for someone
cheerful and humorous and found Augustus. They could communicate and
understand each other while most people in the society couldn't.

Hazel liked the Price of Dawn and stayed up reading it. It wasn't
because it had taught her lessons like AIA, but because reading it was
funny and entertaining, it allows you to take a break and enjoy yourself
freely like a child. Sometimes, we need these things to slow us down and
help us to get rid of pressure in life.

In chapter three, Hazel's mother's celebration of "half birthday" seemed
very queer. However, if we looked deeper Ito it, we can see she really
meant Hazel had survived another half year by using Phalanxifor. Since
Hazel got the cancer, Hazel's mother had worried about her health. It
showed she is affectionate.

Then we came to the plot when Isaac was crying about his eyes being cut
out. I felt sympathetic for him. When I first looked at the plot, I
thought Monica was bad. However, when I thought again, I came to this
question: who'd like to be in love with a blind person and care for him
the rest of his life? I began to understand that we shouldn't just blame
her. She had done wrong things but how many could stand the situation,
or, even worse, didn't just simply break up and kind of forsake him
afterwards. Things are that confusing in real life. There are some bad
things in life which make you so angry you want to explode. But if you
look deeper, you cannot find a person directly responsible to it. Maybe
it's destiny.

When their friendship got more deeper, Augustus asked Hazel to go to
Amsterdam. The ending of AIA is what Hazel wanted to know all her life
because AIA is the only book she read after she got her cancer and a
book which she felt involved in. AIA is a reference Hazel found for her
real life. That's why when she got the chance to see Van Houten and knew
what the ending of AIA is, she desperately wanted to go there, ignoring
her body conditions.

Before they went to Amsterdam, Augustus took a scan and his body "lit up
like a Christmas tree". But knowing Hazel was going to die anytime soon
and this may be the last trip together he insisted to go to Amsterdam.

When Hazel arrived and discovered that Peter Van Houten is crazy, she
was so disappointed. She was desperate while Peter Van not only didn't
answer her questions but drove them out of the house, she thought her
life was over the second time. This tend to be a closer relationship
between she and Augustus.

Finally, Hazel painfully returned to normal life. At the fake funeral
Hazel expressed her feelings about the little infinity between them. It
is a thing we can come across but can't demand. It is a thing of great
value that we should always treasure it.

Cancer killed Augustus Waters at last and ended the relationship. She
was so sad about his death. I think the condolences people write about
him were not unreal but was said without thinking. Why didn't you care
about someone when he is alive but act so sad when he dies? It infers we
only care about something when it passes away, and there are few things
that can return once it passed away. We should always cherish what we
have now.

This book is really touching and made me sad for a long time. I learnt
that though sometimes the things that pass away couldn't return, we can
learn from them and keep them forever in our hearts.
