---
title: "Visiting Berkeley High School"
date: Fri Jan 12 2023 22:23:12
type: berkeley
---
Today I went to BHS for a visit; I mean, I basically sneaked into the
campus for a whole morning. Now I am going to talk about the impressions
I had of that school.

## Last Night

I didn\'t know if I could enter the campus last night, so I walked
around. I found the campus door open, and I walked inside, kinda scared
but not really, because I am 17 and the age of a high school junior or
senior, and also, nobody like an adult staff is insight.

## Soccer match

So basically, I ran into this soccer match going on there, I even took a
few pictures. There are some people watching on the stage. It looks like
a nice playground.

## The Gym

That\'s all for yesterday, and today I went to the campus at 7 am. I
followed a couple of guys into the Academics building and started going
around. At first, I was kinda afraid that some staff would show up, but
then it seemed like I blended in, and nobody even talked to me. Then I
went into the library for a few hours and listened to a literature
class, which was very easy and fun.

What is interesting is when I was moving around campus staff don\'t
point and talk at you, and I don\'t see that many staff. Long as you
don\'t bother them they won\'t do much to you, so as an outsider nobody
questioned me.

## Campus in the Morning

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/f7e33c63-a3ec-465c-a13a-0915062eb576)

## Nice Campus Building

![Nice Campus
Building](https://blog.jimchen.me/a0ddb305-d2bd-4e33-b8c5-77dd95bc9d45){style="width:80.0%"}

## Mathletes

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/0f067fad-afe1-4374-a4cb-18dc1b1571dd)

## Health

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/57fb8270-3599-4e70-b374-8b555869382a)

## Hallway

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/b8a4bfee-d2e3-4064-b74e-ff2d7398c667)

I feel like I was in a movie without roles. I was not getting involved
anyhow with their daily life, and I have no friends here. I really want
to interact or just communicate with some of these students about their
daily life and what they like, just anything. This kind of life feels
foreign to me, and as a 17 yo, I really want to join in the conversation
and have a various life in high school. Walking down the noisy hallway,
I felt like I could blend in easily with the school community. Problem
is I had almost no conversation today at that school.

When you don\'t know about anything and have no idea of what people are
like, and have no idea of what life is gonna be, you really kind of lose
a sense of direction and have no motives. Why do I want to do this?
Sometimes I wish I do not study at a university but in high school
\'cause that was supposed to be the right place for me, and they were
supposed to be unforgettable years. But from another\'s perspective, I
was more than lucky, and they envied me so much, being able to escape
from the sad reality.

I always feel a sense of loneliness at university. I feel like not being
actively involved in anything. After so many days, I finally came to the
conclusion that I could not live without the presence of other people,
that I am a member of society, and that I have to live with a community
and friends, not alone like Robinson Crusoe. Sometimes things don\'t
work that way.

There are students of all races and looking very different. There are
black, white, and yellow, but they are kind of tall. What\'s more, some
people wear shorts when the weather is, like, 50 degrees. Other girls
are dressed really hot. Some people wear heavy masks in school, but most
people don\'t at all.

Students are walking in groups actively talking about the things that
they are doing and fun stuff; nobody is glued to their phones. I mean, I
don\'t see almost anybody looking on social media like in China.

The classes in high school are mostly small and split into discussions,
which is kind of interesting because you get to know other people. The
teachers don\'t do long and boring lectures that much.

I do not want to be required to do lots of things. Teachers and parents
are like, you should study, and that is your responsibility, without
telling you why you should. Anyway, there are lots of people out there
well off who do not study but have talent. What I want to do right now
is to discover the world and understand things; in China, they say like,
doing this is harmful to you concentrating on studying and stopping
doing it, so people went back to playing video games on their beds. I do
not see why what I am doing can\'t be a choice of my own; I mean,
obviously, I am part of the society, but freedom to choose and to live
is vital, and that freedom is worth anything.
