---
title: "Visiting Lafayette"
date: Fri Sep 22 2023 23:59:54
type: journal
---
Today I am going to Lafayette.

## Emotional Problems and Lab

Last night I faced some emotional problems again and couldn't get any
sleep. I attended the lab in the morning. Now its evening and I am going
to Lafayette.

Anyways let's not talk about the disappointing stuff and go back to our
visit to Lafayette. I went to the Bart station, but it took 20 minutes
just waiting for trains. Anyways, I hopped on a Bart and went to
Lafayette.

## Dark and Creepy

It was almost 9 pm when I arrived and it was dark. When I went out of
the Bart station everything looked creepy, like I could just not see
through the fences.

Then I walked on Mount Diablo Blvd, and there are many stalls in the
middle of the road. Many people are packing their stuff in their trucks.
I reckon it was a street market closing up.

## Dinner

Then I walked east of Mount Diablo Blvd, and every street looked dimly
lit. I tried to find dinner, and went into local kitchens and bought a
tortilla and some chips for dinner, then I eat as I went around. The
food was very delicious.

The streets are literally so dark in Lafayette at night. As I started
walking towards the Lafayette creek on Moraga Blvd I couldn't see
anything, as the only light was from some houses, so I turned back.

There wasn't much to see at night. I walked on Moraga Road and there was
an elementary school. Then after that the street go so dark so I went to
back to Mount Diablo Blvd.

## Safeway

There was a Safeway on Mount Diablo Blvd so I went inside. There was
this watermelon cup, and buy 2 get 1 free thing. So I went and get 3. I
also got some oatmeals and stuff. Safeway was open 24 hours, and I
thought it is so nice and looked it on map, then realized there is one
very near my home and I didn't even know that before.

Anyways as I went out I realized that the watermelon cup is very large,
and one is quite enough, and I had to carry 2 of them with me. So I
thought shopping was kind of like leaky relu in machine learning, you
don't necessarily get more rewards with more budget.

When I walked out of the supermarket I saw some people but realized they
weren't homeless but normal people. And I thought Lafayette is like one
of the affluent neighborhoods around here, so that isn't much surprising
anyway.

## Deciding to Go Back

However no matter which way I walked, it is dark and creepy, and with
food I bought from Safeway to carry I could practically go nowhere.
There were still some cars in the streets though.

Then I tried walking west on Mount Diablo Blvd.The people I saw when I
first came out of the Bart Station were gone as well as their trucks. I
couldn't go half a mile before there were no light on the streets and I
decided to take the Bart back.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, this is a somewhat unsuccessful journey, but there are
always ups and downs. I would probably try to plan more when visiting
places at night, and choose populous places like San Francisco. Other
than that, the food is delicious and going to Lafayette was fun, and
Lafayette is a quiet, clean, and fine neighborhood.
