---
title: "Visiting Richmond"
date: Sun Aug 27 2023 18:20:10
type: journal
---
So this Friday I went to visit Richmond. I went to North Berkeley Bart
Station, which is not far and downhill from my house, then took the Bart
to Richmond Station. There is Amtrack Train in Richmond station. When I
got out of the station, the roads looked very rundown. There are
homeless people everywhere and the roads are very dirty. There is
nothing good about the place, and I dreaded that place instantly.

So I looked at map and went south to Marina Park, which is north of the
bay. It was a long walk, there were no people on the streets, and the
street was very dirty. But after walking pass a highway everything began
to feel cleaner. Then I walked into athe Marina Park.

There are many geese in the park, and many boats in the harbor. There
are hundreds of geese, and their poops are everywhere on the road. I
wonder how it feels to live in the toilet?

Walking past the large group of geese I could see the bay area, and the
view is quite good, and the bayy trail was clean and not dirty like the
roads outside.

I could see Albany from the trails, and the small hills with a few
houses. I could also see the golden gate bridge. The view was pretty
good in the sun.

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/5baf4990-3b06-4fd4-a97c-f911e3a40897){style="max-width: 400px"}
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/5934271c-0228-4f6b-816c-e41bcb19f5db){style="max-width: 400px"}

Then I continued walking for a while and went on a lyft home. I felt
kind of dizzy later that day for no reason.

This is a short post so I think that\'s it. In conclusion, Richmond is a
drity and ugly place, but the bay trails are definitely worth visiting.
I then realized that there are no parks around here, which is kind of
sad, so the best place for hiking may be bay trails, which I went
multiple times this year.
