---
title: "Visiting Orinda"
date: Thu Sep 28 2023 20:22:12
type: journal
---
So today I went to Orinda. The trip was postponed for 2 whole days.
Anyways, I hopped on a Bart and went there.

## Orinda Village

I got off and went to Orinda Village. It was lovely village but rather
small. The restaurants are closed at like 3 pm, but they would reopen at
4 or 5 pm. Anyways I went to the library. The library was very nice and
comfortable, with free computer service and a bookshop. I thought about
how much I enjoyed libraries like 5 or 6 years ago and became a little
melancholy. The library wasn\'t hot at all.

Orinda does seem affluent, with almost no people. The sun was
blistering, and I felt very hot. It was like 25 degrees Celcius, and the
sun makes it impossible for me to go uphill.

There was a hill up on the left side as I walked along Orinda way, which
connects to Berkeley. Then I walked to community park and there were
some midaged people with a lot of kids. I walked up to Holden High
School, but there was no people inside.

Then there wasn\'t anything more to see in Orinda Village. It was much
smaller than I had expected. So I took the bus 6. The bus didn\'t arrive
on time, and I was almost going for Lyft when it arrived. Anyways, I
took the bus and went to Moraga.

## Moraga

There is Miramount high school in Moraga and many students are walking
out of the high school, so I went in out of curiosity. There was a large
parking lot and many people were driving. There was a hill on the back
of the high school, but it was private.

## No place for Walking

So I exited the school and started walking around Moraga, and I wanted
to walk to Lafayette Reservoir, but it was just so hard to walk around.
It was very hot and there were all those hills and I ran out of water.
Anyways so I just took the bus 6 again to Lafeyette Bart Station.
