---
title: "Visiting Walnut Creek"
date: Mon Sep 19 2023 20:02:54
type: journal
---
## Why

Yesterday I went to Oakland. Today I was still very much frustrated.

I went the Bart station and asked ChatGPT where to go, and it told me
Orinda, Lafayette, Pleasanton or Walnut Creek. So I went to Walnut Creek
by Bart.

## Walnut Creek is Clean

The Bart train went up like the hills east of the Bay Area and I came to
Walnut Creek.

Walnut Creek is very clean, which is kind of satisfactory for me. I like
clean places. There are no trash on the ground. Walnut Creek does look
affluent.

There are many cars on the streets. I went to North Main Street, and
there is a target store. Then it was like almost 5 pm, and I decided to
eat some food as dinner/my breakfast.

## Dinner/Breakfast

I went into Lettuce Restaurant, and it was very clean and the waitress
was very nice. I ordered a sandwich and some donut, and they taste very
good. I paid like 16 dollars which was even cheaper than yesterday's
stupid KFC.

The houses around are really beautiful, and I thought it must be pretty
nice to live here. Everything is much better than dirty Berkeley or
homeless Oakland, as there are just no homeless people here.There are
really a lot of trees.

## Civic Park and Regional Trail

Then I kept walking to Civic street and went into Civic Park. There are
so many big parking lots in Walnut Creek. I kept walking and there are
many dogs. I hate dogs and I turned around and walked back to the
streets.

So I walked towards the Iron Horse Regional Trail. The trail is well
constructed and there was an Intermediate school along the trail, and I
walked into the school. There are some girls kind of playing volleyball
and some boys playing soccer. There is also a gym and there are more
people in the gym than outside, and I didn't remember what sports they
are playing.

I thought about doing school here and thought it pretty nice, but my
middle school experience is very valuable too, and I thought how it made
me who I am right now, caring so much about some things and being so
sensitive, yet ignoring completely other non relevant things in life.
Anyways it seems complicated and again Walnut Creek is very rich, my
family probably couldn't afford anyways.

Then I kept walking along the trail, and the small road across the trail
looked nice as there are many beautiful houses. People look better
dressed than Berkeley too.

Then I came to Pleasanton Hill Bart station and went home.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, north California is a diverse place. I very much prefer
Walnut Creek part and would like to visit it again. It is very clean,
not crowded, safe, and green.
