---
title: "Visiting Ocean Beach"
date: Fri Oct 27 2023 01:15:54
type: journal
---
Today I visited Ocean Beach.

I was in a very bad mood and distorted these days. I couldn\'t get any
work done and think about living in remote settings like in Northern
Europe or Alaska or New Zealand daily.

## Eating Dinner

I hopped on a Bart and went to Mission district. It is very crowded
there with homeless people everywhere. I looked around and bought a
burrito for my dinner.

## Taking Bus

Then I walked around, and it was a steep hill up the road. I took the
bus.

I could see the sun setting and it was very beautiful, but when I took
out my phone to take a picture the bus moved, and the buildings blocked
the sun. I never saw the sun again. Then I thought like how days pass,
and they never go back, and suddenly this year is ending, and so is my
exchange program in UC Berkeley. I felt very very empty inside, and felt
my incapability to handle things these days.

## Arriving at Ocean Beach

The bus took forever and went down and up a lot of hills. I sit in the
most remote corner and played with my phone, watching lots of people
getting up and down the bus.

Then I arrived in Ocean Beach, and it was already dawn. I could mildly
see the some golden clouds in the end of the horizon.

Last time I went here was in January, and I went here with my parents.
But unfortunately the car broke down, and it was very very sad. It was
also raining hard that day, and we ended up going nowhere. Then I
thought maybe I missed my parents now.

Then I thought how fast time had passed since January, and I felt voided
and eaten up by this.

## Going Along the Beach Trails

So I went out and walked down the beach, and started walking down the
beach trails. There were few people scattered along the beach trails.
There were also some dogs, running freely around. I started running,
until I was out of breath, then I started running again. The beach is
such a good place for running, as fresh air filled my lungs all the time
in the vast open.

Then I kept walking, and the sky became dimmer. There was hardly any
lights in the distance. I felt isolated from the world and it was very
good feeling. The city seemed remote, and after a while I saw no people.
I seemed to be walking all alone surrounded by the sea. I haven\'t seen
the ocean much since coming here, instead, I think this is only the
second time since January that I seen the ocean. I could only see the
Bay in Berkeley.

I felt very melancholy.

## Turning Back

I went about 1 mile when it really became dark, and I couldn\'t even see
the beach clearly, so I turned back. I was even a little afraid. Night
here is so different from daytime. There was no roads leading out of the
beach so I had to climb the slippery sand.

I quickly found a place to climb out and walked to Upper Great Highway.

## Going around at night

Going around at night is always not interesting here. I went to
Lafayette some days ago at around 7 pm and there wasn\'t anything to see
at night. It is the same with West San Francisco. I hadn\'t thought San
Francisco would be this big and thought it would be well lit like
Shanghai at night. I was wrong.

## Going back home

I seemed to be going nowhere, and I felt very thirsty, so I tried to bu
some water. I walked past Sunset Boulevard. Then I bought some water and
juice, and took the Lyft back home.

## Conclusion

San Francisco beach is very beautiful, but it isn\'t very accessible
from Berkeley, as it took me 2 hours to go there. If the beach is behind
the school (like UCSD), that would be much better. I felt very much
empty inside these days, and felt no interest other than tinkering
around with Gnome.

![](https://blog.jimchen.me/e4b5953d-6109-48ed-be08-dfb830381762){style="width:40.0%"}
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/4a500189-be43-403e-bd2f-ada9058b3b03){style="width:40.0%"}
