---
title: "Visiting Concord"
date: Mon Oct 23 2023 17:20:12
type: journal
---
Today, I ventured to Concord. Not the famed Concord near Boston, where
I\'d been in the summer of 2016, but the one situated north of the Bay
Area.

## Bart Station Gateway

Upon exiting the Bart Station, I was greeted by a radiant sunny day. The
vibrant ambiance of Clayton Road beckoned. Distinctive black road signs
adorned the streets, complemented by picturesque homes that exuded charm
and classic elegance.

## A Bite at Galindo Street

My appetite led me to Galindo Street, where I indulged in a delightful
meal at a restaurant simply named \"Ramen.\"

## Amusement Park Adventures

Post-lunch, I contemplated my next destination and eventually meandered
towards the Amusement Park. The main roads teemed with vehicles, in
stark contrast to the serene lanes nearby. Though the park itself seemed
underpopulated with just one other visitor, a parade of geese caught my
attention. Their synchronized movement was so impeccable it reminded me
of a \'geese school.\' The sight was truly enchanting.

## Port Chicago Highway

With curiosity still at its peak, I embarked on a northward journey up
Port Chicago Hwy. The path grew challenging post-Panoramic Road, with
the absence of pavements and speeding cars zooming past. A somewhat
unsettling encounter with a peculiar individual near the California
Delta Highway quickened my pace, urging me towards the more developed
side of the road.

## Glimpse of the Greens

Adjacent to the California Delta Highway lay an expansive golf course, a
verdant expanse dotted with ponds and trees. Its beauty was evident, but
the \'No Public Access\' sign dampened my spirits. The potential of this
space being a public park crossed my mind.

## The Industrial Park Saga

Seeking another view, I made my way towards the Reservoir via Bates
Avenue. However, the journey was less than pleasant. Industrial
structures loomed large, pavements were in disrepair, and the constant
roar of vehicles was almost deafening. The one-mile trek felt laborious,
but the sight of the Reservoir, with its deep blue waters and distant
mountain vistas, offered solace. Unfortunately, it too was closed to the
public.

## Homeward Bound

Finding myself amidst the stark environment of the industrial park,
feeling weary and slightly disoriented, I decided it was time to
retreat. An unusual barefoot individual crossed my path, reinforcing my
decision. Not in the mood for further exploration, I summoned a Lyft to
whisk me back to the Bart Station.

## Reflections

While Concord\'s downtown area radiates charm, the industrial park
isn\'t conducive to leisurely walks. Future visits might benefit from
better planning to truly appreciate the city\'s beauty. Perhaps having a
car would facilitate better exploration, ensuring focus on Concord\'s
scenic locales.
