---
title: "Visiting Oakland"
date: Mon Sep 18 2023 19:11:04
type: journal
---
Today I went to Oakland.

## Sleeping Schedule Problems

These days I am having sleeping schedule problems. I was completely out
of sleeping control.

I mean, I almost adjusted things to the right place this weekend, after
sleeping and getting up normally at Saturday. Then my computer broke
down after purging libdev-dev, which was ChatGPT's advice for me to
debug, and I suffered a minor broke down too.

When I was young it seems like night is an end to a day, but now
sometimes I just don't want to sleep at night.

I would usually try staying up for 30 hours to adjust my schedule, but
it would just bounce right back after a few days. I would often reach no
answers when pondering basic philosophical questions. And I thought
again and again my plan to move to north Europe or Alaska.

## Thinking about Buying Another Computer

Last night I was thinking about buying another computer to try on gentoo
and possibly build lfs, since I don't want my computer to broke down
again. I need to use my computer on a daily basis and modifying the BIOS
settings and doing stuff may cause problems. I looked for laptops on
Amazon but they are not satisfactory. I want to use the new pc to play
with maybe gentoo and arch and lfs and blfs.

I don't need much of sound, voice, display resolution, touchscreen,
mouse, operating system, additional keyboard features, much storage
space, any additional repairing stuff, or any crappy Microsoft services.

I need a big screen(15.6 inch at least), high processing CPU and large
RAM(at least 16gb), and no hardware problems.

I tried searching on Amazon but it seems pretty expensive, and the
cheaper ones are not trustworthy. Pinebook (220 dollars) seems fine
except for it's 4gb ram, and in the end I thought System76 is a good
choice, but it was like around 1000 to 1500 dollars, a little too
expensive for me.

## Going to Oakland

I was fully frustrated and decided to go out to do something but try
make it short, and walked to Bart station. I stepped on the first Bart
Train that came, and it is going to San Francisco. I don't want to go to
San Francisco,so I decided to go to Oakland.

I first got off the Bart train at West Oakland. West Oakland looked very
rundown indeed, and the streets are ugly and dirty. There aren't a lot
of people around.

## 7th Street {#7th-street}

Then I tried walking along 7th street and went to Market Street, and it
began to look much nicer. There is a school on Market Street and a KFC.

## Eating in KFC

Then I thought that I haven't seen any KFC here in US, but a lot of Mac
Donald's. But KFC is very much popular is Shanghai indeed. And I was a
little melancholy when I thought about Shanghai. Then I went in KFC to
eat.

The servant at KFC isn't very smart, and it took her a long time to
understand what I am saying, and she couldn't get words straight. Also
the food is very expensive.

## Melancholy and Thinking of Home

        … Away from home, away from home
        Away from home, away from home
        Lord, I'm five hundred miles away from home
        … Not a shirt on my back
        Not a penny to my name
        Lord, I can't go back home this ole way

        When the seas and mountains fall
        And we come, to end of days
        In the dark I hear a call
        Calling me there
        I will go there
        And back again

## Market Street

Then I walked around Market Street and it was very nice, to the point
where I wouldn't mind living here actually. There are some geese in a
park, and the streets are lined with beautiful trees and wide pavement.
The houses are also pretty beautiful.

## Homeless Camps

Then I further walked north to 23rd street, and everything became dirty
after that point. There are a lot of homeless people camping right on
the streets, which disgusted me.

Then I walked east to San Pablo Avenue, and it was so dirty. The streets
are lined with homeless camps on San Pablo avenue, and smelled of pee
and stink. I was very much annoyed indeed.

Then I started running a little bit, and I run till Telegraph avenue.
There are a million homeless people on the streets along the way, and
all garbage from clothes to dumped foods. There are people with obvious
physical problems standing in the middle of streets.

## Downtown Oakland

After walking a while on Telegraph Avenue things got better, and there
are many tall buildings on each way, so I reckoned it was like downtown.
It is kind of like San Francisco, but the streets weren't clean.

## Conclusion

Anyways Oakland it not a good place I think. The west part on Market
street was decent, but overall this crappy place is so bad.
