---
title: "Visiting Fremont"
date: Sat Jul 29 2023 21:42:31
type: journal
---
## Fremont

I am kind of bored these days so I went to Fremont in the weekend.

## Why did I go there?

Just out of curiosity. Also, I heard that Fremont is really rich, so I
wanted to there and see for myself.

## How did I go there?

I walked to North Berkeley Bart station (where I usually run to that
station at night), then took the Bart for like 30 minutes.

## Fremont Central Park

There is a beautiful park in the center, and a lake in the middle called
Lake Elizabeth. The park is lovely, and many people are like walking
around the park. I realize there are no good parks around Berkeley,
except for maybe Strawberry Creek Park, which is like smaller than the
forest area in the university. I went in and got a map of the park.
Occasionally there are people speaking Chinese, but also some looking
like hispanic. There are no homeless people in the park. There is a
series of hills across the park, and those are all yellow, which is kind
of ugly.

There are so called many activities in the central park, but I am not
interested in any of them.

## Mission Valley

After going out of the park there were no people on the roads, like no
one at all, but there were many cars. I was wearing long sleeves and
long pants, and it became so hot in the late afternoon. I walked around
Mission Valley, so called \"rich neighbourhood\". Basically it is quiet
and you do not see a lot of people on the streets (so food and restroom
are hard to find). I figured since most people go out driving it won\'t
be a problem.

However, there are many cars on the roads, like Paseo Padre Road. It is
hard to cross the roads because there is almost no pedestrians at all,
and I had to press the button to actually cross.

There are many tall trees in the middle of the road, and overall it is
nicer than Berkeley, but not all that good. I mean, you can see such
neighbourhoods almost everywhere.

## Walking Long Distances

I walked around the neighbourhood, then went to Mission Community Park.
It is overall not hilly compared to Berkeley, but traveling is extremely
hard without a car, and in the end I walked many miles back to the Bart
Station, and there is a long distance between different Bart stations.

I carried 1.5 L water and drank all the water, since there are no
grocery stores to refill.

## Dinner

There are, however, many restaurants out of the Bart Station, and I
managed to find a very cheap and nice restaurant, and dinner cost me
around 15 dollars, which is like the same price as Berkeley.

On going back to the Bart I felt a little cold, since it was getting
dark. I was sore and tired from walking, and there wasn\'t much to do
and see anyways.

## Conclusion

Overall Fremont is better than Berkeley, since it is cleaner and there
are no homeless people. However, getting around is definitely harder.
The scenery is medium, and those yellow hills are really ugly behind the
park. Overall it should be like 8 or 9 out of 10.
