---
title: "Visiting Fairbanks"
date: Wed May 24 2023 09:02:23
type: journal
---
       Activities     Price    Info
  ---- -------------- -------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  13   -\>Anchorage   504      SFO-\>Portland-\>Anchorage
  14   Hiking         20       Fish Creek Park, North Coastal Trail, Delaney Park, Downtown Anchorage, Anchorage Museum, Lake Spenard, Earthquake Park, Point Woronzof
  15   Hiking         0        Midtown, Cuddy Family Park, Chester Creek Trails, Woodside Park, Goose Lake, University of Alaska Anchorage, Lake Otis
  16   -\>Seward      105      Bus
       Cruise Tour    189      Resurrection Bay, Holgate Glacier, Aialik Glacier, Waterfall, Orca, Whale, Seals, Sheep, Fox Island
  17   Hiking         0        Two Lake Park, Mt Marathon Jeep Trail, Lost Lake Trails
  18   Sealife        38       Seastar, Sea Lion, Seals, Skate, Shrimp, Anemone, Salmon, Seashell
       Flightseeing   318      Resurrection Bay, Bear Glacier, Aialik Glacier, Holgate Glacier, Exit Glacier, Harding Icefield, Slate Island, Bear, Seward view
       Hiking         0        Waterfall Switchback Trail, Waterfront Park
       -\>Anchorage   93       Bus
  19   -\>Denali      105+93   Railroad, Big Space, Slow, Expensive Food, Slow Service
  20   Hiking         0        Mount Healy Trail, Rock Creek Trail, Meadow View Trail
       ATV            132      Self-drive, Dry Creek, Otto Lake
  21   Jeep Tour      184      Park Road, Denali Highway, Moose, Caribou
       Hiking         0        Horseshoe Lake Trail
       -\>Fairbanks   66       Railroad
       Hiking         0        Downtown Fairbanks, Pioneer Park, Kiwanis Park, Growden Park, Chena River
  22   Hiking         0        Santa Claus House, North Pole Elementary School, Terry Miller Park, Morning Star Park
       -\>SFO         523      

            Hotels                   Place       Price   Info
  --------- ------------------------ ----------- ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  513       Puffin Inn               Anchorage   178     Sink no water, shower cold
  514,515   Airbnb Malibu Road       Anchorage   92      Big house with backyard, Free chocolates & oatmeal
  516,517   Airbnb Monroe Road       Seward      148     Studio, No washer dryer, Noisy street
  518       Airbnb East 3rd Street   Anchorage   194     Very big house with living room (too much for 1 person), comfortable
  519,520   Princess Lodge           Denali      144     Strange odor in toilet, Good view of mountain, Standard
  521       Golden North Inn         Fairbanks   139     Standard, Free Shuttle & Chocolate, Slow Wifi

Alaska, the last frontier, where winters are freezing cold, and summers
are short and cool, where wildlife and breathtaking nature and
everywhere.

Some destinations include Seward and Homer, the seaside towns, Denali,
the tallest mountain in North America, Gates of the Arctic, national
park of untouched nature, Prudhoe Bay and Utqiagvik, to see the Arctic
Oceans.

I learned to be fearless, to have trust in myself, do the challenge
without turning back, to face loneliness bravely\--solo traveling gave
me courage. I saw the broadness of nature, the beauty of glacier and
huge snowy mountains, melting ice and waterfalls and sliding rocks, the
blueness of ocean and coastlines and rocky beaches, more than 30 degrees
north in latitude from California, and the wildlife, bears, orcas,
seals, and many more, that I hadn\'t seen much before in life. Now in
the evening sun everything looked glamorous, and the all the places and
sceneries I was once amazed at became dwarfed and not that interesting
anymore. I flew in a helicopter, went on a boat cruise of 110 miles,
hiked solo on the mountains, went on ATV and Jeep tours, saw the
kindness of strangers. I learned to be well-prepared, to plan a trip
carefully, to get a car in the future to be ready for the roads and
mountains. There are many first-times for me on this trip.

One trip is hardly enough, and I quickly fell in love with Alaska,
one-sixth the size of Europe. After this trip I will return one day, and
perhaps even choose to live here.

Future places to go: Prudhoe Bay, Gates of the Arctic, Utqiagvik,
Juneau, Ketchikan, Wasilla, Alyeska, Talkeetna, Harding Iceberg Trail,
Lost Lake

I tried to book the cheapest hotels, but they are still expensive. The
reasons are because I travel solo while most hotel rooms are for 2
people and I do not have a car, so I cannot go very far and only have
limited selections, and couldn\'t sleep in a car. The most expensive one
is airbnb in Anchorage, which was actually designed for more than 1
person but since I was staying only 1 night, with the cleaning fee it
became expensive.

## 521 {#521}

Today is 521.

I am just leaving Denali, and going to fairbanks. My trip is almost
coming to and end with the final destination. I am on the train, and
feeling quite sleepy.

Today I first went on a Jeep tour. The Jeep tour was to pick me up at
Princess Hotel and 7 am. It was freaking early and so hard to get up and
I got up at like 6:59 and then hurried to finish packing my things. I
went to the hotel lobby and I could hear the tour guide calling my name,
and I didn\'t even check out or drop luggage, which I had planned to do,
before leaving and going on a Jeep tour. Fortunately, though, te
checkout went successful.

The Jeep tour is extremely expensive, like 184 dollars. Everybody got to
drive a Jeep of their own, and those couples usually sit together,
except for me, as I had to sit in the tour guide Myriam\'s car. Then we
got off to the park road.

Then the tour guide explained how the rivers were all formed by
glaciers, and salmons will die in those rivers so inland, since the
rivers are rich with silt, which comes from glaciers, and we can judge
how the river flows from how brown the color is. The Park Highway went
like along Nenana River, the one just down Princess Hotel.

Then someone saw a moose and we all slowed down, and I managed to get my
first picture of a moose here. Then we went to see some caribou, which
is like reindeers. I saw those caribou from a binocular provided in the
Jeeps, and there were 3 of them, eating grass. We drove on Denali
Highway, where it turned out to be a dirt road, and to camp settlement
and had a stop there, it seems as an entry to the mountains. Then we had
snacks provided by the tours. It was a spot to overlook spot where I
could see those snowy mountains, and the tour guide explained Denali is
like 18000 ft from base camp to the top, very impressive, still growing
at .5 mm everywhere becuase of those plates clashing together.

On the way back we passed some RVs, a crazy motorbiker, ATVs, and some
normal cars. Then I got very sleepy and slept for half an hour. When I
woke up there was 2 caribous in sight. Then we went back to the highway.
It just seemed like a normal drive, and I ended up paying so much.

Then I went back to the hotel and stored my luggage, then headed to the
horseshoe lake trail. The trail was a piece of cake for me and I ran
first half. Then I saw a beaver\'s dam, and I crossed it, getting my
shoes wet. It isn\'t hard to cross it, though, the trees and leaves are
all loose. Then there was a rock cliff like in the side of the lake, and
I attemped it twice. However, everything was loose and I couldn\'t even
get past like 30 feet before feeling too dangerous to go on. Anyways, I
am like 18 years old and don\'t want to risk losing my life. Then I saw
some road in the tundras and attemped it, and it seems smooth at first.
However, there are too many dead trees falling down on the way and those
branches got in my face. I tried very hard to reach the other side of
the park road, but it was a steep climb and there was just too much tree
branches, so I ended up quitting it anyways. The way down is no easier
than the way up, and I crawled on all fours and tried to slide down the
tundra. But there are so many dead trees and branches and mosquitos, and
they always flew around me. It was annoying but I managed to go down
safely.

Then I ate some food in the restaurant Morina Grill and then went back
to pick up my luggage. People here kind of work in all different states,
and many come here only for the summer, which is cool. I thought about
finding jobs every year in different places and it seems tough but fun
at the same time. Then I boarded the train to Fairbanks. Denali is the
highest mountain in North America, and I haven\'t explored much of this
place yet before leaving it. I hadn\'t even gone on the denali bus tour
or the savage river shuttle. But anyways things went fine. I slept half
of the journey.

I found that the land became greener and grenner as I was going
north-summer was coming there first. In Seward after 500 ft or so
everything was covered with snow, and in Denali there was only little
snow on top of the mountain, then as we are going to Fairbanks on this
train everything seemed so green, that it didn\'t look like 67 degree
north latitude at all. Trees are growing just everywhere, and no trace
of snow could be seen by eyes. I thought that on the train from Shanghai
to Hefei it was more bare than this. Then I arrived and called the hotel
and they came pick me up.

There was only me staying in Golden North Inn and the man picking me up
was a fourth year student in University of Alaska Fairbanks, who is
working in the hotel. He is kind of dressed in woman\'s clothes and is
very nice. He talked about how he had only C grades and had attempted
computer but failed, and I thought I was fortunate not having to work
while studying. After settling into the hotel I grabbed a map and went
right out to hike. I planned to go downtown and went along Cheny River.
I saw a group of people who thought I was Japanese, and a woman acting
very strange and talking to me in words I can\'t understand. Anyways, I
left and went for downtown.

It was pretty late at about 10 pm at night, and it is quite empty. I
kept along Cheny River. I went to Pioneer Park, which seems like a
children\'s playground, and there are some women doing bike flips, which
seems very interesting. Then I went to Growden Park, and there are a
group of people, mostly kids and teenagers, playing volleyball. Some of
them are half naked and barefoot they were having so much fun that I
wished I could join. There are also some other people skateboarding
there in the park. It was beautiful there at night. In Denali and Seward
most people are tourists hiking around while in Fairbanks they seem to
be living normal lives. Also, the more north I traveled the hotter it
gets. In early May, it was like 5-10 C in Seward, in Anchorage it was
like 10-15 C, while in Fairbanks it was like 15-20 C. Now as I look
around the trees and mountains are deep green, and there are no signs of
Arctic weather or coldness, just spring and life everywhere.

There are few people on the streets in the evening and it did get
lonely, then I thought like hiking with another person. But then again,
like 2 people aren\'t necessarily safer, if a wolf or bear comes out and
attack no one can escape, and I think it is just as safe hiking alone as
2 people because I tend to be more careful when I am alone. Anyways, I
figured it was mostly mental support, and maybe by traveling in groups
makes the trip sounds more reasonable, instead of like mindlessly
wandering, which was what I had done. I gotten so much good photos that
I had a hard time deleting the mediocre ones.

Then I went to Kiwanis Park, which is much more deserted. I walked
around then quickly went out of the park to downtown. There is an
elementary school and I could hear people playing in the school, and it
was like 10:30 pm. I thought I had gone to bed earlier than this in
elementary school before becoming half a night owl now. Anyways, it was
a hard walk and my legs are beginning to feel sore. I could see the
mountains and a red sun just setting down, and it looked so beautiful.
Downtown Fairbanks looked very worn down, and there are merely a few
buildings, and few people. It was actually a little bit creepy, and
those people doesn\'t seem to look very decent. There was just old
houses on either side of the street. I walked to City Hall, and there
wasn\'t much to see. Anyways, it was like 11 pm, and I was getting
tired, and the wind was becoming cold. I walked around a little bit
more, and up to Cheny River again. In the red setting sun the bridge was
so beautiful, and I took some pictures, and there was a statue about
WW2, and there was a polaris sculpture. I saw some people sitting
outside, and they are probably homeless, so I wanted to go back as soon
as possible, and I called a Lyft, and it came after 20 mintues. I then
went back to the hotel.

Fairbanks is much smaller than Anchorage in both population and size. It
is very beautiful, and a quite populated city as north as I could get.
In less than like 40 hours I would be in Berkeley again, and my
luxurious trip is coming to an end. I totally enjoy this trip.

\
Horseshoe Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/w7cGP3uwIl_4kspcqBH1weDncPaBOxAVo7MF7uA_y3VCDdIWTn-efKzuYT_8uU9jFFH0rRe-_cdGKtG6d-6iRj2heftIlhNr1UrxdYJvIc1w239lEYmtUPikSemoZbz8xJctmFXlLpRD92SDGAMoHEs=s800)\
\
Growden Park\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/2jxviBLDUEnT5BW_u4-PhUsXX0-AcA7EPEC3G3gSo4WsqQTAutIbjrJ-MC2GELuOoTMV_lN9F25o4lnyA3mzs9vgOYb4NxmEi5CkpD_nCEebWvi20FiwGG5JJZEH2Jkmb-hTJw5lXojnhlWCu2bcHCU=s800)\
\
Chena River\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/poDcIoo4NKU3L5mtotLq-CNkwwZIDlcyAXSiwvBz8KXq5NFUe4Gs1_X1go-Xjo6Tqu6hhPgm2ZQPDG6uTdFXSr6YgFDzFvY8fuE_PgPTLbFUi9b72WjdgF_99RdMyizSKMgcccWb7ZNJN5rRgqkius4=s800)\
\
Midnight\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/VrwrsStMMdRBBE6qsOKzM7I1ZHT-S2Kv4dPgLQrcBXGolQftQOS56oRturui-pMsRmrsQQmdKKp8iNZr2_b_oa_cZ6TuMyWtONtSXA9kMkIuIfhL3keGDtYvVzO_cuasFOOLh4p_jNtsxDy00JT484k=s800)\

## 522 {#522}

Today is 522 and I am leaving Alaska.

I slept all morning and got up and ate breakfast at the hotel. Then I
took a lyft taxi to North Pole, and there was a big statue of Santa
Claus, and the driver even helped shoot a photo of me with Santa Claus.

Then I walked around North Pole, and it seemed a small and old town. I
could hear a few dogs barking so I was scared. I walked around and there
were some parks, but the roads aren\'t well constructed. Then I went to
the North Pole elementary school, and I didn\'t even realize I went into
a school. I saw many kids, while the whole population of North Pole is
like less than 3000, so I figured that there are less than 50 kids in
one grade. Then I looked it up in the map and there was the elementary
school. Children are climbing up and down and swinging, and seemed to
have fun, which made me want to have fun with them, but I walked away.
No one stopped me from entering the school though.

Then I went to a shopping mart, and rested a while, and walked to a bus
stop, and took the bus back to Fairbanks, then took a Lyft to the hotel,
then took the shuttle to the airport. Then I went into the airport and
my trip ended.

\
Santa Claus Statue\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/7A_pN5mExlid8Tz3X5r80xCzJThDY9Z3ezDVnRaFj9NNc8CQYDRjbraglvKI8BZWDcpHz5AH6lGGfLr79xXK8eSkm1PdM8yxsE0puXNOyKJycQ7h78k2_NQO3cHFHCKmTWOJg2O6fM8wTP6d7Lxab6Y=s800){style="width:40.0%"}\
\
Santa Claus Store\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/LUnJF-ral0Vr3bE_Nw3SOh-QAzQCx63WkVsvytCZaFTKOl0ZkcYFJBDK04M9GWAE2yoT75oJuMmvLd5LeK6xpIzMdFj9pDSKPFu2LKBNOWKpZ8EFaqD1dqwu1roSDkB2H7D232jYIZ5-U6j9rlcfWH0=s800){style="width:40.0%"}\
