---
title: "Visiting Anchorage"
date: Tue May 16 2023 19:40:24
type: journal
---
## 514

Today I stayed at Anchorage.

I previously planned to go to Seward tomorrow but it seems like there
are no tickets left, so I am going to Seward the day after tomorrow. I
slept pretty much all morning, and went to downtown in the afternoon. I
dropped my bag off at the hotel, and carried my backpack. I first
planned to go to downtown, but the road wasn\'t suitable for walking and
it was like 3 miles to downtown, so I ended up taking a bus. The bus is
very convenient, though.

The views is spectacular, in fact, I am sure I won\'t be amazed by
normal sceneries. The scenery in Alaska in just on another level
altogether. I could see mountains covered with ice in Delaney Park, and
see all the way to the other side of Knik Arm.

It was hot today, and I ended up with only 1 layer of clothing and
taking 3 on my hands, thinking it was hot. As a result, I got tired soon
from walking, and my feet was sore. I went around and got into a visitor
center, where I chatted with 3 people for a while, then went to visit
the museum. But I was sore, so after a quick visit I went back and
checked in at the airbnb.

The airbnb is much much better than the hotel, with only half price.

There are almost no homeless people in Alaska. There are few black
people, but all taxi drivers and bus drivers I encountered are black.
People here are friendly, and some will stop and say hi and I walked by.

I went to the Earthquake Park and Point Woronzof Beach. It was long
walk. I went there from the Lake Spenard, and it was so beautiful. I
also saw helicopters.

It was hard to walk since there are almost nobody walking and cars
dominate the road, however, the view was spectacular.

I like the beach in Anchorage, which is more than 30 degrees north in
latitude to beaches in california. I ended up getting back on Lyft since
I was too tired to walk.

### Photos {#photos1 .photos1}

\
Midnight Sunset outside Ted Stevens Airport\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/ziFcv5ZsgLjhYD617bDNTDJfhhmuTkauZfGxHQ1LJ8vSZk0IVO9-ijWBU0KGHVBQpUm2XaJgexR6AFaooOwlL5gxUw-fn7r9aw2lLfaYPz5LGIHMWXDAWYCjHVHaA8k6C84RiD3b9sSrKZN1ucCs8dM=s800)\
\
Downtown Anchorage\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/F6wXRJVFI6Ptl38ABdm6eE61G_RczPGKoRPq8BzhVBYRGknj8rDb1KjubeTqwcnChYVntlkeKgCBxWLn0JZTw-H12giOjtND0Rc429gSSJmcw1BjTOCFpSSzK_6X8CHzz2ycxyW_xLFOtBeA7IIk_0Y=s800)\
\
North Coastal Trail\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/6bO8bwF0nU_sZ7fSq_xQpJ1dhr_oJibqpbnHRFVTA60e6lWa5FV4JeHHVyRZEHcdpWppiC5mkXI87s1zBzLOdlSf0yBxNtVYb6iGyIL0U1fZqcvpvyOsLXO_icoRDOjB475vlRzLfiOExA2KG0yQXnc=s800)\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/UEEh1Y3EdsAwbPy3XusxQe2LbOwTVvEKbrj1pEQBca3BXBAuSOM5AJqh0P8p73ArAT2EjAwYeAK_0Vyadqe5K_-e4_bvq2qocRAeHklTONTuQFpJOWqwRgH-AdcUkrtxq02jmITFxZjpHRK3cxeEa_M=s800)\
\
Delaney Park\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/4HA1DgZMkepbqJ9aTV9tyXJUQH6uYWks0GCUib99NCT9YM31GMC2i9dVDiFOqrtLobZpafNfSi_oG3F-eUakKpfW09vSDfg23NtftNGokHXYi5fJtkCHN0-2Js1EKMrfUaNcjXKzIXoC0UGsuEsoOVA=s800)\
\
Anchorage Museum\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/dhNOyNW6iEdHEdF0cJCUxb-7yhC2abIxJmDEtYSeF7FrUKmTuc1546X7-gg3vDt51dPb5sKSVvBp-CMkdZYa88CeXU4pnCir_yqB_lZ0caL8jHJcdnO733lhwyeXhhclir1hxQMoB8cqk1gTJxwG0M8=s800)\
\
Lake Spenard\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/gLRo7wHXL_SDR6t_lsZbD7DUw80xahqs3Z7bhRTSQnI0HV35mEEjnsAaaJ8i8_PIRente6PF9qhSgG9xPAvgFnldXfelq2auH8EjUBaYGpnFUDwSUeMQqvl1f__6IypYmfzqUDW9fcoANsYJjmyaqJQ=s800)\
\
Lake Hood Seaplane Base\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/POCFrlqWzxVwwXh0_3654zEmyE81lMOxVGc9mcj8IcA9P-b9tnVUZjSS3SaSa9fSJoKATcI6MnP2zO_-bvKFgDBKyzPvsQnYP2eCXlfcQQFlXPZSLoHwV3Cn7lpVHrPiRMILrOgbkjP84dK3qHexzXQ=s800)\
\
Earthquake Park\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/8XBN8bi8Om1S7ZQ8hbSz7XCQzFoUVPevDZwV2ZLwehZl5zu_xM2C9VTe5xhA29dJWaakAZ9mcNRpMSohoGnAW05CnAvgxwSl4K0NbNc58B5xR_nNYxqd84Fg_Oc559HoXDeKzdABC1iFKz9ESIpvuZM=s800)\
\
Point Woronzof\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/yZ4mtTmCPJGSmNTU9JgAcoE3h2ZZhp4PCXqA6rdVhW7Gc4tYDrRmFFthkJmCYrPADhKfW-eikldeXltzgrNKNOUXtJkb7Ef-xn7t0eWhUSl3Mf_ptNUDLDNC_wPMm4M-QtG5VeKdhWSlhiOrE37PGzQ=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/eLhbim1OVZ3g9wBBS6ci8JdTRX3rxZRQpo4mLYh54vOcFkvFS7oMWHffEg35ofD6zcypjED_awtLCoHwVRmeJZr7Vi0rJhr-mblHfVqfj7OfYrrX7o4V4xa35HsoSS_EW4AmCr-WFTQdOYo-ZNqy_WU=s800)\

## 515

Today is 515.

I slept all morning because for strange reasons I wasn\'t sleeping early
last night, and I realized how poorly planned my travel is. I didn\'t
even finish booking for the tickets. I spend two hours at noon booking
everything and trying to wrap things up, but turns out that I am
spending so much money on this trip. I booked an airbnb in Seward for a
quite expensive price, and it didn\'t even include storing luggage after
cheking out and shuttle, so I had to do everything myself.

I initially planned to take a bus to midtown, but for some reasons the
bus didn\'t come, and in Google Maps it also didn\'t show that the bus
is coming, so I ended up taking a lyft.

I took a lyft to midtown and hiked around. The driver was chatty, and we
talked for a while. He told me his son is also a sophomore studying
economics at Boston with full scholarships, which I thought is much
better than me, although he wanted his son to study engineering. He also
told me he grew up in orange county, and how he thought Europe is better
than US because of homeless problem. Overall he is very friendly guy. He
mentioned that Puffin Inn is really bad, and there are shootings and
shady people. I told him about my school and life too. The ride was too
short for a long chat, and we parted at Cuddy Park.

Cuddy Park is mostly empty and there is a big lawn, but on the other
side there are worn-down tents. That is the first time I saw
homelessness in Alaska.

Midtown is very dirty, and poorly constructed, the roads almost wild and
not suitable for pedestrians to walk. I walked very hard and constantly
looked at my phone. Then I walked to Chester Creek and walked along the
trails. There are also many other people walking and cycling on the
trail. Goose Lake is very beautiful, it is blue and I could see the
snowy mountains above the lake. There are some dogs from other people
which got me scared, though. But everything turned out all right.

Then I went to University of Alaska, Anchorage. I thought the campus is
very beautiful. In many places in China, the trees and grasses and lawns
looks as though they are artificial\--human made for recreation and
greeness. However, this campus looks as though it is constructed out of
a natural reserve. The campus is big and there are parking lots
everywhere. In contrast, Berkeley looks dense and crowded. But I know
this is not the kind of university my parents would gladly let me go to,
although I think it is really nice. I went into several school
buildings, which are open to the public, and got some water. There are
almost no people in the campus, and every building is connected to a
parking lot. It is really hard to get around without a car. There is a
figure skating podium in the university and I think it is nice. Anyways
Anchorage is much nicer than Berkeley but of course my parents won\'t
let me go there for school or anything like that so there is no question
after all. Maybe I can come and be a teacher here after graduation, and
with a car I can go to glaciers and National Parks every weekend. Ah,
imagine that.

Then my legs got really sore and I had to go. I went to Lake Otis. There
is some park called Jacobson Park without a road on the map, and I went
in through a wild trail. The trail was so bad that half of it is wet,
then I saw someone with a tent. I hadn\'t thought it strange and I was
like \"Sorry\", and then I saw that there are no roads ahead I was like
\"I am turning back\". Then I heard him say something like \"Can you
spare me a dollar?\", and I got kind of scared, but since I am not sure
I just kept going away at a faster pace.

I walked around and it seems that the roads there are consists of
popular university names like Duke, Stanford, Princeton, but there are
no Harvard or Berkeley, which is strange. People were watering their
lawns and a elderly woman said hi to me, which I replied the same back.
But by the time I almost couldn\'t continue walking. I sat on the ground
nearby and called lyft.

Then I decide to call it a day since I am leaving early morning
tomorrow, and it is really hard for me to get up early, so I must
prepare well. On the lyft back the driver chatted with me, and he asked
my information and I told him I was getting A or A- or B+ this semester,
and he was like \"everything is A+, you should work harder\". And I
thought again just how lazy I am, and how I would try to work harder
next semester, which is merely a thought in my head for pretty much all
my life. He also told me how he was feeding those homeless in Anchorage
and there are 300 in total, some of them die of frost in winter. He said
he could take me around town and I told him I wanted to go to Kincaid
Park, but since it is ordered in Lyft we just finished the trip and
parted. Both lyft drivers aren\'t black this time.

I ate at subways three times in two days (I only had 5 meals in total),
but I think it is pretty nice.

After two days of hard hiking I think I saw the equivalent of half a day
of car driving, however, I think that walking is another unique
experience anyways.

### Photos {#photos2 .photos2}

\
Airbnb Malibu Road\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/OZCFzQfT-VjNfnhIhwIwnH4YYWy9Nw1sGzmajYCSb6GUo9MZ0lkknK7669MDSFT3pMjIYnVHB-Vvc5gZy_RYVE2fjm4ZyyVNoQGniJbmQM63ErPbhKpCtF7M0Mr-kwj-tNGor0xrByaKEsFBlw2WGsU=s800)\
\
Midtown: Homeless in Alaska\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/h36i8c-zqrnX7Z08xT5A9sp_EUAsPiBAez9d2dGWQFbcKFH6sok1ASqAy6Upe51Z69SuNKiTQR0JF3cfTqY7T-HXejG-mp_5iawLflWxWm9rAV0DgjZN5P-bb_q21ApNEtxD96WFaSijmxaK-MGM_9Q=s800)\
\
Goose Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/EXVEXhuD9QDDBo3TUscDYdeDpJXPGp34D9iVRNdzS9VJGDbTXTQQyyvhwZ1i2GXfzzwbKuYLlUcZQ4el2hWLxTYZUb7DdQAGnUgHce5Px38B0dTT5qxxFj5bHAtDHIg5CR2ppXLYc4VMNySi00T_BH4=s800)\
\
University of Alaska Anchorage\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/kvAk_gFW0WgsfMSySaNVBldsls9rCPbyW31jFenHlWGd-YFmy7n6kMv6VLygorl3_jzzjLTLoDzMnC1afolyhVvuNnqpiYGGd9KzWOhl2HJgjOzsygNeiVukB2ThmH8E8r7nV0gxHZ7U5u50Gh9DKBg=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/VzSGkJ7A5Eyl9vVBzbv9AWBVHxl3O1to-Yriu97yLexhEBb44LVg_IigPVkYXk64njM95bMXZgZQDPOY9krQM5oboCPio72YCCnokX45HRrILCf-k0f98oi90hN3_JtTpbiVe-WOOLxXbccGeURtW04=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/flcIzTSKFrtdfGwueNaOU_z9zPbQKolzyV1ZARrNuIX7I788MxQzZuPdXKmaG19yg_zNOGAubQZ3IrcUFKWK6uruzTvfxWGSlquQ6t9I7ulP_YvA0qRq1prnvC3n_OS7tgkQZqyaY7_cE6dz0FsxpTo=s800)\
\

