---
title: "Visiting Emeryville"
date: Thu Sep 21 2023 22:50:24
type: journal
---
Today I went to Emeryville.

## Student Support

I had some personal problems, then I went to the student support for my
problems and chatted a while. The man helping me was very nice and I was
touched.

## BestBuy in Emeryville

Then I took the bus F to Emeryville. I had wanted to buy a computer for
a while but was unsure about which to buy. I got off the bus at BestBuy
and went in to take a look.

Anyways, there are all kinds of computers in BestBuy, ranging in price.
I tried some briefly, trying to restart while simultaneously pressing
f12 del f2 and shift, and some have trouble booting into the BIOS mode.
There was this 4 gb ram computer, and I tried playing a YouTube video
with 2160p but it didn't work well, however there was this huge
expensive more than 2000 dollar gaming computer, and didn't play the
YouTube 2160p video well too, so I reckoned it was like the Wi-Fi
connectivity problem. The command lines and power shell in windows do
not work. I reckoned I want 16:9 computer since my eyes' distance are
long. I also wanted it to be at least 15.6 inches.

Then I was trying on a Vivobook, and I booted into BIOS easily, but it's
menu is quite strange, and I could even use the touchpad. Then I tried
booting Ubuntu, and it worked. However at that moment a worker came and
said it is forbidden, and looked very much annoyed. So I ended up
unplugging the usb, and after a while it boots into Windows again.

Then I asked the worker which computer is best for Linux, and he said
directly there is no Linux computers, and I thought he lacked basic
knowledge. I thought like as a worker in a computer store you would at
least be familiar with computers, but like they actually know nothing.

So anyways I tried a MacBook, and I haven't tried Mac much before. I
tried opening a terminal, but the worker came back at me and said
"programming" is forbidden too. I thought like I couldn't live 5 seconds
without terminal. Anyways I thought those workers are just as stupid
like those in ATT stores, and that they best work in other shops like
clothing shops or Mac Donald's than work here, since they provide no
knowledge of computers.

Then I decided to buy a System76 computer since I do care about
performance, and as expensive as the computer is, it is half the price
of a class in UC Berkeley. I don't want to waste money on a computer
that is hard to use.

## Dinner at Chevys

Then I started to dislike Best Buy a little and went out and walked a
while. It became pitch dark, and I was a little afraid. Last night there
was a robbery at gunpoint at Berkeley, and I was always out there at 4
or 5 am. But anyways, it is still early, and I wasn't going into any
homeless places.

I crossed the bridge to the Bay, and went into Chevy for dinner. There
is loud music playing, like, deafening, and people dancing. It is kind
of fun but I do not like loud music much, so I went and sat on the
opposite side of the loud music and people dancing, and it seemed
bearable. I quickly ordered a chipotle. Then after a while no waitress
came to deliver food, and I went to ask them, but suddenly the waitress
handed the food bag in my hand, then I started to eat. Despite the loud
music, the food is very delicious.

## Emeryville Marina Park

I realized I had been to Emeryville Marina Park only once, this January,
and that I haven't been there ever since. It is dark at night, and
seeing the waters far ahead seems like looking from a plane, with low
lit lights scattered across the horizon.

## Walking Along the Shore

Then I turned north, and started walking back to Berkeley along the
shore. The road was dark, and along the highway there was only me, the
Bay, the sky, and dim lights. It felt so isolated, kind of like how I
felt walking along Huangpu River but much more. The roads went on and
there weren\'t many people. The waves were softly pushing along the
shores on my left.

Time went fast as I walked along the highway, and I reached Point Emery
in a fairly short period. There were some cars parked there and few
people, who I couldn't see clearly from the dim lights. Then I walked
on. On my right was Aquatic Park, where I had been to like around 3 or 4
times. But I had never been to the shoreline on the opposite side of
Aquatic Park since it is not easily accessible. I remembered walking on
the inside of the railroad to Emeryville but not outside of the
railroad, and I kept walking north.

The Bay at night was fascinating, and soon Emeryville Marina Park was
nothing but some lights lined on the south of the horizon, and then the
lights combined with the Bay Bridge and I couldn't distinguish between
them. 2 miles went by very quickly, and I saw the bridge to Berkeley
Point.

## Taking Bus Home

I remembered seeing some suspicious people on the bridge some days ago
at night who were perhaps homeless. Anyways I did not cross the bridge
but kept on to McLaughlin Eastshore, and it was so dark I even felt a
little afraid, but soon came to 51B bus station. Then I took the bus
home.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, Emeryville is quite fun, and walking along the isolated
shore at night alone is indeed a unique experience even for me who likes
to wander around now and then.
