---
title: "Visiting North San Francisco"
date: Thu Aug 31 2023 16:39:14
type: journal
---
## Why?

So today I was kind of restless and found myself not doing anything at
all, so I went to visit North San Francisco. I went on the Bart and then
got off at Embarcadero.

## Shoreline

So I walked to the shoreline. There are many tall buildings in San
Francisco, much more crowded than Berkeley. The buildings reminded me of
the skyscrapers besides Huangpu River, but of course Huangpu River is
like much smaller than the Bay,

The roads are like really wide, and many people are selling different
food, smelling good in the air. Mostly I saw sausages and fruits, but I
suppose they are kind of lack hygiene. I could see across the Bay to
Treasure Island, and Golden Gate Bridge.

The streets are dirty, and there are many homeless people lying all
around. There are many cruises and many large boats parked along the
shoreline which I suppose is for a tour for the people.

It kind of reminded me of Anchorage, but Anchorage is much cleaner and
much less crowded and less windy. I already wanted to visit Alaska
again, but it takes a lot of money.

Then I walked along for a while, and on my left was a small hill. I kept
walking and there was a entertainment park, filled with many small
restaurants alongside.

Then the wind grew strong and almost unbearable, and I didn\'t want to
walk anymore, so I tried going to Powell Street, since there is a Bart
station there, and also I wanted to go to Adidas to buy pants.

## Chinatown

Walking from the shoreline the streets became very dirty and very small.
There are tall buildings alongside and it was very hilly. I walked
around and kind of lost direction in Columbus Avenue, going one way then
going the other way. I walked into Chinatown, and it was very dirty.
There are a group of like 30 elders in sitting around and playing like
poker of something, which reminds of those senior people back in China,
and they look kind of alike. I wonder how they felt living here, in this
crowded city. Some people told me seniors wanted to go back to their
hometown, like \"falling leaves returning to the root\", and I thought
that they might me lonely and nostalgic or something, but anyways, I
didn\'t bother to think more.

Then I thought I probably would want to live in a less crowded place and
quieter place when I got like 70 years old, but that\'s not my business
now anyways.

There are a bunch of Chinese restaurants in Chinatown, but most are
closed. Then there are some other services. But there are also many
homeless people looking like Asian.

## Market Street

Then I walked to market street. It was only my third time to San
Francisco (last time I was watching Mean Girls musical, and the time
before my parents\' car broke down in Ocean Beach), and it felt quite
queer since I have already been here like forever. Anyways I went to
look for clothing store.

Market street is full of smells of smoke and drugs, I think. Anyways,
there are bunch of homeless people there, but the shopping mall was
good.

Then I went on the Bart at Powell Street and went home.

## Conclusion

San Francisco is crowded and a little dirty compared to Berkeley. It is
also very hilly. Shanghai is much better since it is cleaner and there
wasn\'t homeless people. But visiting seems interesting. San Francisco
wouldn\'t be my top choice for living, though.
