---
title: "Visiting Seward"
date: Fri May 19 2023 21:23:32
type: journal
---
## 516 {#516}

\

Today is 516 and I am departing from Anchorage to Seward. I got up super
early at 5 am to catch up the train at 6:45 am. The lyft drive was so
fast and I got to the station at 526 am more than 1 hour earlier. Early
morning is so struggling for me, but I feel pretty well today.

I walked around in downtown and the sun was just rising over the
mountains, it was so beautiful. But there are some homeless people
sleeping on the ground so I tried to avoid them.

However, due to an avalanche the train was cancelled, and instead they
offered a bus service from Anchorage to Seward with the same schedue, so
I got on the bus and I am stuck on the road now.

The drive was so beautiful, almost otherworldly. It made driving along
the highway very tempeting for me, and I will try it some time in the
future. But back to the bus drive. We first got out of Anchorage, from
downtown to midtown, and along Seward Highway. On the road I recognized
some places I hiked the day before. So much faster with car!

The driver is very interesting man and acted as a commentary along the
way. We have 2 stops along to take photos and stretch, and they are
amazing stops.

We went around Gulf of Alaska and the driver explained that it was
called turnagain because that the tide rise and fall so quickly, and
that at 6 am in the morning it is highest, but by the time we got to
Seward the Gulf would be almost empty. Captain Cook discovered this
place. Also, they couldn\'t construct a bridge across the Gulf because
there are only mud in the mountains, no rocks.

The driver said that we might spot Dull Sheep or Bears on the road left
of Seward Highway, and \"call \[animal\] left/right if you saw\", then
someone called dull sheep left. But I didn\'t see anything, and we just
passed. The driver also said that there might be seagulls, swans, or
something. Then we saw a trail of snow or ice which covered the tracks
of the train and the driver suggested this is the avalanche that cuased
the train to cancel.

The driver explained that there are no ecosystems in Turnagain, animals
come and go, and that sunlight cannot penetrate the water. Then we
passed to Girdwood and on my right there was many dead trees, to which
the driver explained was once Girdwood, but in a 9.6 earthquake in 1960s
it caused a large tsunami, which flooded nearly all of the sea cities,
including hope and sunrise. The dead trees are salty and rocky, not like
rotten dead trees, since they drank the salt water in the tsuname.

Then we stopped at Girdwood as some passengers may be getting on the
bus, I run around and took some pictures. There was mountains all
around, and covered with snow.

Then we kept moving and got higher and higher, to a parking lot where I
could walk on the snow. The snow was very soft and when you stop on it
you leave a big footprint. I nearly got my shoes wet. I didn\'t walk far
becuase the stop was only 15 minutes. I could see the snow and ice
stretching all the way to the top of the mountain. The scenery was
breathtaking and I took many selfies and let someone else took a photo
of me. On the mountain among the rocks I can see remains of avalanche We
got to Moose Pass, where it was a small town with few hundred people,
and that there are not a gas station. I spotted an elementary school and
I wonder how it feels like to study there, since there are less than
1000 people there might not be enough students for even 1 class. Then we
passed the Trial Lake. The lakes here comes from glaciers and is
greeish-blue. The lake is so calm and beautiful and I thought about the
lake and mountain I saw in Switerland but couldn\'t recall much since
that was many years ago. We went along Kenai Lake, and we are currently
stopping with Kenai Lake under our feet. The Kenai Lake is shaped like S
or Thunderbolt, and it is very very long. It is the best place for
Salmon fishing, and they would go \"combat fishing\", shoulder to
shoulder on the ground.

The mountains are covered by green pine trees and bushes up to a certain
height, then it begin to get white.

The driver said that there are only 3 seasons in Alaska, winter, almost
winter, and construction, and since it is expanding this highway there
is only 1 way to go, and nwo we are on the way again. It is raining hard
at this time.

We arrived at Seward pretty soon, and I went looking for Orange Bike
luggage service. Turns out the door is locked but there are 2 young
people with the tag on the road, so I deposited my bag. It was like 11
am, and it was raining so hard the town looked worn down, and there is
almost nothing I can do. Then I went to Kenai Fjords tour which I
previously booked in 517, and I asked if I could change the date and
they said they could, and I got on the boat at about 11:30 am.

It was raining pretty hard. Only as I got on the boat did I realize that
I haven\'t been on a real cruise before. I did remember going on a sea
or lake a few times maybe, but the ship is so slow and so peaceful that
I could barely feel anything. However, today it is absolutely different,
as it was rainy and windy, and when I went on the deck the wind blew so
hard that I couldn\'t stand without hanging to the railing. Anyways, I
went back inside and found a seat at the front of the boat across 2
elder woman, and they asked me to take a picture of them and I asked
them to take a picture of me in return.

The boat was almost like riding on a rollar coaster, as it goes up and
down. I couldn\'t even stand at first. But eventually I got used to it.
I saw some young people going outside at the front of the boat, so I
went out too. The wind blew water in my shoes, but it was fun standing
right there nevertheless. We kept going and it felt more like a cruise
out to the sea than a national park tour, as I had imagined. The captain
had a harsh and deep voice, and I couldn\'t hear him well inside the
cabin. The captain announced we are going 110 miles, and off we went.

After a while I heard the captain call \"orca\", and the ship slowed
down. Many people went out to shoot photos. There is a black tail there,
and the captain explained that it is the fastest swimmer, going as fast
as 30 mph. Then the ship started again. The mountains are surrounded by
fog, and I couldn\'t see much. Everything around looked misty and
magical.

Then we went to see glaciers, and it was the most stunning thing I had
ever seen in my life. It looked so pure. There are floating icebergs on
the sea, and as the boat went around I could hear crack crack as the
icebergs hit the boat. I saw like 7 people kayaking around, and it had
already been quite a time on the speedy boat, so I don\'t know how these
people had managed to get all the way here, and how they had managed to
overcame the freezing temperatures. It was very cold outside, and my
fingers went frozen. Almost everybody else had gloves. There are eldely
couples and young man, mothers bringing their young children. It was a
lovely site as everybody was taking photos and selfies and looking
around.

The glacier came between mountains, and it was sort of white-blue color.
I wonder if there is some fantasy kingdom on there, as it looked like in
those disney movies. The glacier looked too magical, coming out of
nowhere and shaping itself in beautiful curves. There are icebergs
floating all around, and they stretched in all directions, all the way
to the mountains. Then one of the crew members picked up one iceberg
with a fishnet, and showed it to us to touch, claiming it had been there
for hundreds of years. I couldn\'t describe it better in words, but
after seeing that I find the trip very worthy.

Then we went to see a second glacier, and I heard noise of ice falling
to the ground. Among the iceberg there is a whale, and it would
occasionally come up to the water to breath the air. There is also a
small hill with no trees, and there are some caves in it.

I got very sleepy since I didn\'t get much sleep last night so I dozed
off. Then it was 4 pm when I woke up, and the rain stopped, the day
became cloudy and rays of sunshine penetrated the cloud to the ocean.

Then we went to see seals, and there are fat, slippery and cute just
like in documentaries, where polar bears would try to snatch up as their
food. There are many seals resting on a rock on the ground. But there
doesn\'t seem to be polar bears here. The ocean became blue as we came
back, and the mountains were clear. We then went to Fox Island to pick
up people, and I wonder how it feels like to live on the island.

Then I think it is time to call it a day and I went for my luggage and
came to the airbnb. I think I really love Seward and I am enjoying my
days.

### Photos {#photos1 .photos1}

\
Sunrise\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/yXInqKS-DNSRqHZw8QnaxejYm-rgeS6SIK-_0P0AVlyKDizKl9BrKuOhcT1aGE6NYsQ_DsMcBh2Uq3qPZgOf732oz-7YrQbaIFUpPVPtJVQeuSyWiFAYnY3j6VZKDHbvffS0kFu5d4bACujxPajcW_4=s800)\
\
Turnagain Arm\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/HltZzQ87ouSoxWHqlhfxMtqR44jGsG3JsX9Mh7ausnlowqanI2g6d7M_1sxveezI8g8j0p6dxlOQB1R37cOVt4LIONLt6Z3G_FsvzffAOLK4_riYZeCkKY2Dt7pNylP4fOeTQZOotdgi-u8fKSBlrvU=s800)\
\
Girdwood\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/dKGlxosdgCPf20CTmE_8-FxPpzgJ8T8d7xRM5Jb7rQjP0dVkuu8grSWWR-rNeb9xGOYzK-yptGntOqoJ9sOhyZmt7zHgnMzn0aDjXfm7vAMVaHZZpjmSE5IsGls3NGONqYce5qR25RJwoaVPaLJXrts=s800)\
\
Chugach National Forest\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/GinQGeWBKGHXIQzyaBGS3FOaclbU-VENdDLLSx9UDuztL4jOPC7q6z1ZJn3qSxlspCEr0l98vAW8jD_xy4D37TFz6zmdtiOr4REqpFhBLULbOzF3mjcnNld7FgleuWZhTOmUZrFq7BHmeqRZMhQk9Ys=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/sdvHow7voBlZ-PQQ_pPwgGwU0NsspIGTdbYVGaWZ9KR0mKes48VdneL7UozZB-Zeb7Hze23dsVyDN7no5xJjowd18gHbP50l8zHuq8xndaTxFN_ZoA6JMMkEXcxCmabdrrN2dQytSsYES0o1FPzPLIU=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/97-tHgFFuZAImkYhG-AfUE2wOvx2Qudg3-uUZQaEa7Tt2Wvs60CgPe9WlJh_gb1r3SJNy7sq0DeHoLSPHlf0e3Jy0w98m3meurRdNdbz6wtJNotFmI4J71iR9UQRV-0hiDrQTYNsBJgcjcuw509JUjc=s800)\
\
Jerome Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/gRgsodj9ANJSXTwnnTJaFrnYnoPL7gPYRgLxxlVUr6d23h9Oj0iega1zSIU9rg6JqfspZVt_3Qh_ptTtCv3eG1J0G3lkmPlBB9uhehvDl6Odc97_DqtWjBIda4qV7M6V59au26QG_RMgYWyceGQrYjw=s800)\
\
Trail Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/lgJirvDwS9YnewytJFQYr9uhc0ehzbsp0gn-dq7ZB5mOhnvq_A5M1MpnjTVl89wFZIblIQjAOU0EZr9DICCiqUakaTFrbaRfCdlfMtvo2zdqOe-xh-6sYxxZM8eK6oOblZiQLRmUliuXJj_XuVtMh28=s800)\
\
Kenai Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/cuKt1FGQuT9iOF9OBHJ2KKeU2g6NBjbOky8_oNvM3eb0jIkzE2N16dGemQeymjR9DDYrJhaRstUG5m_UETQq80r75ZOr9lUtMoPF2y1s6xR6QHoE1SpT60fgnzxkaJTDF6NRROViysPOj7ySnWkhK9I=s800)\
\
Kenai Fjords Boat Cruise\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/psnjgdPs2m9Tdkkypz3VwPaUdy-7_--qBNo1llGzVbTqmhVW90TqH70eGgWCiqMu233sIXiolKjXO1WiLq6D6IPMSGhYYTSvaARTsDX0ixgNPaHtyM21ejf-Dac_vyFvOuXI7j-IjAULi6WlyuuI1lY=s800)\
\
\
Holgate Arm\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/lFftsL36oyLqECXuvB42lTnOVALk6WfNBJzLjtXhSBzxatx1wL257tpj0RynCEhzbTa5UYDeNmuquFKj_5LzE1AdILxbCkb9OGH0JO7Ps_dvdRwJ6BN9qzU9uOmV9KlrgUC9s94tvmadE8R5sxy5k0Q=s800)\
\
Holgate Glacier\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/wkOezc5UAJQoE08XNJgbVdeHYlTCma7-0Mn4yeSZ1H0rheGSA-TwSAgzUPc1hRx0f-nheNK8JgNVbe2jSyTKBPXZkBGfcRPC8jMKuN4343CfEPmY0AGjtHhm0u8Z_ZfvPbYsLjE5vEIfga78pgjb6rg=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/asdkRWC0KiDG4qOCA4fgxwcMXhYaQOE7qgdE6admodeGUJAcoNC7YwM02s1QDeX9e0KjK_kSRLicNftHSL1acKaPaV2H2XkyD9pi5DL8onTWE_pvuEmbVs15xxzRzxyL0-3JAQahue7bNGOX1_KWe30=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/By288CkP9DzLQErT8_qTSj8EMopdVVzCY9Dznv-UolWtYHfgOpC1OdYeHXcyIFvYlIC42UeZsh0RebEDFqV78G1dJyFNfHFTUGAD0N9ATLv4NbD4RL36A5GTVfj0eBguMs6byLPcVQUUhaxCVSj-spk=s800)\
\
Aialik Glacier\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/T_RT1lyoAgDO0XfEEm7suqCyyyrsPW898kj41zUHEYe9q9oJOmsjK7QJZTf43_N0uvzfrm7f8p7HDS7Zw8FhSDk5l3CnPyaiQNPzQeJVWOakcC4RRApJa5P5gksz5ff0jWvlxzdrJIQkWqIMx-kJHyU=s800)\
\
Derby Cove\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/c6B5hr4yuMKCBaPlGlvVuRwFmV1RbfEspGs0tw2JfeSGRrYTFdereYtFdrxxDJfAJQYTpfjgq-cgKiuRsJznlRU6uUvNuMFew0NLz4Hn5C2L6k16b1VNkrm3d4gmc6zpR0k8EG9DcS4rbjNW0TwFUSY=s800)\
\
Airbnb 3rd Street\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/qtUFmIsWU0b4X786dNtJaEVTyyWqmBmyYvvc8qSm2qb2J4NMA2ESFUVdys7utFC99O9QCVOShJWpL-eJzVWvcwIs0W6calTDY5fPLPyfsBU0ByoWIWSejw_kLLlXmKyx3WDYxK0GGBOFTN6ItozfNaY=s800)\

## 517 {#517}

Today is 517, and I slept half of the morning. The airbnb wasn\'t as
good as the last one, and in the morning the cars were very noisy.

Then I wanted to go to the Seward visitor center. I first went out to
the two lake park, and there was a woman with a huge white dog. The dog
came after me, and the woman shouted \"friendly, he is friendly\". I
managed to get away and went on the opposite direction to see the
waterfalls. Only at the park did I realize that I had been walking on
well-constructed roads nearly all my life, and hadn\'t seen a trail
before. The trails are just basically a place where there are not a lot
of plants going, that you can get through. I went to the waterfall, then
went back, and there was the woman and the dog again. This time it
walked up to me, and I was so scared, but it merely stopped in front of
me and looked kind of cute and the woman smiled and said \"sorry\", to
which I replied I am afraid of dogs. Then I walked to the 2 lakes and it
took me a long time to get out, and I was kind of sore.

I was wanting to get a breakfast or lunch, and went to Ray\'s
Waterfront. The servants are really nice but the price was so expensive.
I ordered a hamburger and a dessert and it took me 40 dollars. I thought
that I would never eat at such a restaurant again, and that I would
always go eat and subway or something like that. Although it said only
hamburger on the menu, the dish turns out to be hamburger and fries, and
there is a steak and some bacon and some mushroom in the hamburger. I
didn\'t even finish the hamburger, out of my expectation, since it is
very large. I then asked the people in the restaurant if it is plausible
to hike up Mt Marathon, to which they replied that it is best to go with
a mate, and there is snow on top. I wanted to go to Seward visitor
center but it was 1 mile away, and I didn\'t want to walk anymore, so I
called them instead and asked about the trip. I took the whole dessert
back. However, I spilled part of the dessert in my backpack, causing my
backpack to be flooded with milk and cream, which covered my pen case
and water bottles, and I had to take time to clean it up.

Then I went to Mt Marathon. There is a 5k race every 4th of July at
Seward that is kind of a real popular event, and many people came to
race on Mt Marathon. But it was only mid May now. The trailhead is 100m
from my airbnb, and when I walked up to it I saw a sign that said not
for inexperienced or unprepared, but the trail looks good enough, and it
said \"jeep trail\", which I am guessing is for jeeps, so I climbed
anyways.

It is steep and I took many rests along the way, but overall not that
hard. I was afraid of bears but fortunately I saw no animals, well
except for maybe birds and squirrels. After the Jeep trail the mountain
is covered with snow, and there was nothing I could to do to keep going,
and that is about 1/3 of the whole trail. I was stil fresh, and walked
along a waterfall for a while and took some pictures before turning
back. In total I met 3 people on the trail today, with one experienced
mid-aged man going up and down very fast, saying he is going up 2 times,
and an elderly couple, who didn\'t went up the trail much and said they
were only there for 2 hours.

Then I went to Lost Lake trail. I wanted to go somewhere and went to
Harbor 360 and asked how to go there, and they said there is shuttle but
somehow I didn\'t find any information of the shuttle on the Internet
and they said it is best to go in a taxi. So I went there in a taxi, and
it took me 25 dollars, and 50 dollars round trip, which I found very
expensive.

So I went to the start of the trail and wanted to began hiking. However,
there is a water spring blocking my way, and I suddenly began to feel a
little sleepy. I wanted to find a way to cross the spring but couldn\'t,
and the road around was covered with snow. In the end I finally stepped
right into the icy water and crossed it. Then I went hiking and the
trail was very rough, partly covered by snow. Halfway up I saw a man and
I said hi and asked how far could I go. He said he went on for 2 miles
before turning back. The path is so hard I am always in danger of
slipping, and there are 2 trails, summer trail and winter trail. I
thought that since it is closer to summer now I would take the summer
trail. The trail is mainly small rocks and tree roots, and there is snow
everywhere and snow is melting, causing the mud to be very wet. There
are bushes, but those shortcuts are hard. It is really hard course.

However, the summer trail is just covered with snow and full of ups and
downs, and before long I had to turn back since there is a cliff and
with so much snow it is very dangerous, and I had already climbed a
mountain a little today and wasn\'t that fresh, so I turned back. Then I
tried going to the winter trail. I saw two woman, and they were also
going into winter trail. Somehow the winter trail is much easier than
the summer trail, and although they are both covered with snow winter
trail seems it is designed to be like that, and the road went on quite
smoothly. However, I was very tired in my legs and my water is running
out, so after about only 1 km I turned back. Literally the snow was so
high that I tripped and half of my body went into the snow. I didn\'t
even go to the point where I could see views because there are too many
trees. The two woman looked prepared and kept going. During the way down
I bumped my foot a little, and had to step into the icy water spring
again. I called the taxi and it picked me up. Then I searched the map
and it was like 14 miles, which is like 22 kilmeters all the way, and I
am not that well prepared anyways. I looked at photos online where there
are trees and flowers and the trail seemed so beautiful in the summer
with no snow, and I was like, how bad is it that I came in such
conditions. It is only mid-May, and I figured that it will take about 2
months for all the snow to melt. Anyways, the day is long and hard, and
I didn\'t actually see much, but it is still very unique first-time
experience for me.

### Photos {#photos2 .photos2}

\
Ray\'s Waterfront\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/pzOCQzUS_lxgMFNXm2q1sHELHDUVu61EAMndwRcx57RLwkW1Hg5ckG0je-JSJ_tDnP2W3I1eQVOxOWLlWaROO0-drUIPWpXLUVjBmueDFmLqcsBhk9Lfhr1EgLiaLpXDa1T6x4sli3YR_nqa0Maezwg=s800)\
\
Mt Marathon\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/A_jVFoYzd7auni0xsMC4AclRRbjwti2MzLkE1QZsgsrqZ-GVu5YRjdDUEx-124gzHhTqb0gLAGGXD7n16JlrCtzuXgj36V1qogAULys32adjHLpiyC2QrJsX_7RJ2u6k9ppaFIri-8idS3HFcgbz2do=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/KsiwDNr2OtCJ6glx_5rv-9mnNqk_W5dTJQLU3JQhWHcZNvbkOh1ptQB1joTfPAFX4slmWptBHsSFuF_70AhfhbzKu1P7h7hZcoevTKFaB58qrWXnUxO1GQS9KjWuGWteOLeCqRj2l6PloyRhlgqb0H8=s800)\
\
Lost Lake Trail\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/QYWHgojcHLatHMkpkzDM9c4gwLqD18ihTkn2uyIvvuW1EM9w4ItK1G0JxmJ6wE2-JstGqSk_TNPyj1pL7-hbXYRO_3y9w4QOgL4ZC2ceA2WhgIFOAIHo3aZgMhW_K3wb28JWZx4TtWrdBSpmgDXmBJo=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/gTR_uvlptQ3DIZungebcQRt2CIpXfDxhJjtUK3fExtxWzjTPc_YcNmc-MkvvtQa4yHK-h-XDy2TSIwWvvVyHoRZ8g2cZ2uhOHYxiRY2uGntW6O1fsIV_3PpCBnTSA4FoJ0zQySixgTnV5mWMd00Svro=s800)\

## 518 {#518}

Today is 518, and it is halfway thorugh my trip. I am boarding the bus
to Anchorage now, and hopefully I will be in Denali tomorrow noon.

Today I went flightseeing. It was originally scheduled at 10 am, and I
woke up at 8 am to walk there. It is very hard getting up at 8, and it
was a long walk. I walked passed Seward High School and the Ryan Lewis
Memorial Field, and there are some people playing soccer and frisbee.
They are very young, and I figured that they are probably the students,
and I really wanted to join or have a conversation but I am quite
sleepy, and need to go to AA Seward Air.

When I finally went there, which is a kind of hard walk, and my legs
were sore. The winds were blowing so strong this morning I felt in
blowing right in my face, and I went in the little house and chatted
with Malia, a worker in the AA Seward Airline. There are many brochures
in the little house, and I thought about Kayaking adventure and
different hiking routes I didn\'t even try, and thought there are still
so many things I can do. She asked where I came from and what I was
studying and had I been on a small flight before, and how there was this
snowstorm 3 weeks ago that made mountains still covered with snow, and
that in normal years snow would have melted. I learned that the pilot is
called Joey Smith, but he is also kind of mechanics and organizer and
commenter. It kind of made me want to be a pilot someday. However, after
a while, she told me they couldn\'t fly the plane this morning, and I
had to join the afternoon tour at 1 pm. I thought how I could have slept
all morning instead of waking up at 8 am,, but the tour at 1 pm is more
costly, so it turns out to be a budget, but still, it is very expensive
to fly anyways. They offered me a ride, and I said I wanted to go to
Sealife Center, so they took me there in their car.

However, sealife center is very small. There are only 2 floors and I saw
Seastars and Seals and Sea Lions and Shrimps and Anemone and Skate and
Salmons, and some kind of birds with a strange voice. The birds were
trapped in a net so they can\'t fly out. I ended up getting out in less
than 1 hour,, and there was still some time left before 1 pm. The wind
was very strong outside.

Then I went to the Waterfront Park, the view is fantastic, the snowy
mountains rising on the otherside. There are some kids halfway on a tree
and they smiled and said hi to me. Then there is a pavilion where
someone is having a barbecue and it smells so good. But it is kind of
private. Then I saw a playground where there are kids of all ages, some
almost my age I think. They are playing happily on the swing. Then I
kept going, and it became so windy that I had to get my hat on, and
could barely walk. I went to Firebranch BBQ to have lunch, which is kind
of delicious.

Then I walked to AA Seward again, which is like 2 miles walk, so I ended
up walking 4 miles in total, which made me sore. I walked on the rail
track, and got there in time, at 12:30. Then I saw Malia again, and it
urns out that I would be flying with an Australian couple. The elderly
couple was really nice, and introduced themselves and the big man shook
my hands and said Hi Jim, and told me he was Rob.

Then we flew on the plane. It was my first time on a flight, and I was
so excited. I had those life jackets on and they also suggested me
weating earcovers with microphone as a way to communicate, since it was
very loud, by normal voice people cannot hear each other. There are 3
seats beside the pilot\'s seat on the airplane, and it is sort of formed
like a car.

Then the plane took off, and in a matter of seconds the town of Seward
went small, and the pilot Joey Smith said we are going to see glacier,
and off we went. Everything just seemed so spectacular on the airplane.
I had seen some glacier on the boat, but on the plane it looked totally
different, and we went straight over, and I could see all those oddly
shaped icebergs on the ground. Occasionally there is a blue pond, and it
reflected in the sunlight. The glacier is just dazzling, and I was
taking pictures the whole time. The man chatted with the pilot about how
to tell winds, and it seems the man had some experience with flying a
plane.

On the way there was a bear on a beach, but it was on the other side of
the window. I also managed to take a picture of the bear, and it is the
first bear I saw on the trip. I figured I would probably be seeing some
in Denali. I kind of wondered why sometimes the lake shows a reflection
of the mountain and sometimes it doesn\'t. I then thought that this is
as good as those scenery films on YouTube featuring like Switzerland or
Iceland, with floating icebergs from the glacier, and all those
beautiful shapes carved by snow. Most of fresh water comes from
glaciers.

Then we went to Harding Icefield, and the pilot said there are some
glacier climbers he had just dropped off here a few days ago, and they
are camping down. We managed to get a pretty close look on them, and
seems to me glcier climbing seem so interesting. We were going past the
Harding Icefield, and it looked like a white desert, so pure and so
white that I could barely open my eyes. I was amazed by this massive
white down there. It purified my heart, and I looked at the harding
icefield and it gave me a sense of calmness when I thought about
everything else. In the ground snow covered everything else and white is
the only color, and I thought that maybe after a few hundred years after
my death my life would be kind of like that, with white covering
everything and leaving not a trace in the world. I am yet to go to a
desert, though. The pilot said that if we land down there the snow can
get all the way to waist. I kind of wanted to go to Harding Icefield
Trail but it was closed. Then we circled back.

Then the flightseeing tour ended and it was really fantastic. Then I
thought that a bird could easily do that flight everyday. However, a
bird can\'t talk or be as smart as humans so anyways, and we were saying
goodbye when the couple noticed I was walking, so they offered me a
ride. I was touched and so grateful fromt he kindness of strangers, as I
barely talked with anyone all year long, and barely know anyone would
have such kindness in their hearts. So I got in their car, which is big
and contain a table and 2 beds. They are very kind and let me sit in the
front. I kind of want to rent a car too. I thought about coming here
again in summer of 2025 when I would be 20 years old, and I would learn
to drive and rent a car like theirs and drive up to Prudhoe Bay alone,
and how I would see the Arctic Ocean and the northern lights, and hike
to the most beautiful places in the world.

The man told me they had 60 kangeroos in their backyard, and when
thinking of backyards I was like thinking about the 30 square feet yard
that people in the first floor would have, and it felt too amazing to
belive. Then they told me their backyard was 9 acres, and I found that
it was something as large as 10 football fields, and I couldn\'t help
but get amazed even more. Then they said it wasn\'t even big in
Australia, which made me wonder just how different are people\'s life
around the world, and I have no knowledge at all about the world
whatsoever if I stay in Shanghai my whole life. They dropped me off at
Harbor 360, and the woman gave me a doll with Australia on it, and I was
so grateful for the gift. I thought about going to Australia one day,
and it turns out that I forgot all of my times in New Zealand.

Then I saw a free shuttle and I hopped on it, and the driver was like
where are you going, and I was like I don\'t know just wanna go around
town. There are about 20 other people on that bus, so I went around and
got off at Sealife Center again, because I didn\'t know where else to go
to. Then it was like 14:23, and I figured that since the bus departs at
like 6 pm I stil had lots of time to do whatever I wanted, and I thought
about going around and turning back at 4 pm. I first went to the Lowell
Point Waterfall, which is quite small. I was at kind of south end of
Seward and didn\'t know where to go, since Caines Head was like 2 miles
away and there are no trails besides Mt Marathon that is less than 2
miles away, so I settled with Mt Marathon, and I decided I am climbing
it again. Since I was climbing the hiking trail yesterday, I figured I
would be climbing the racing trail, and I went to the trailhead
yesterday and a man explained to me where the racing trail was\--at
Jefferson Road. So I walked to Jefferson Road and went in and tried to
climb it.

However, the path is so treacherous. I never saw such a primitive and
dangerous path ever before. I first saw the cliffs, but there are
sliding rocks just everywhere, it is just too dangerous and not even a
way to go. Then I saw another trail and went up a little and found the
waterfall switchback trail, and I figured that it is the \"easier\"
trail and I would like to attempt it somehow. The path went up a
waterfall, and it was so steep like 40 degress up. There are leaves and
mud and falling rocks everywhere on the way, and it was just impossible
for me to climb with a backpack and my jacket in my hands, so I put the
jacket in my bags. I climbed like 30 meters and couldn\'t go on anymore,
and it felt truly like rock climbing. There are many rocks that is not
stable, and there is no place I could get a firm hold on or put my feet
on. At one point I was almost sliding down the mountain, and kept myself
not sliding with my arms almost underneath me. And there is nothing I
could do except turning back from the racing trail before going through
the first like 50 meters.

And then I began to climb down, and I realized how hard the trail was
again. Turned out that I crawled on all fours with my butt on the ground
and my backpack in my hand, and I got my pants all covered in dirt. But
going down is much safer. Then I saw 2 people, probably a couple, coming
down and they were going so fast on the impossible trail for me and they
looked as quick as a rabbit, and as easy as walking on the ground.

I thought that since I had grew up in Shanghai, a crowded city where
there are no wildlifes and no mountains and doens\'t seem to be exposed
to any kind of nature except those artificial small trees and tinny
ponds in the school or something like that, I have no experiences with
the mountains or rocks. I imagined myself going up the treacherous trail
everyday instead of playing in Century Park, and camping outside and
hiking alone instead of spending most of my time in cram classes, and I
thought that would be so fun, and this path shouldn\'t even be hard for
me. However, I could not go back to my childhood, nor could my parents
afford it anyways, and I thought that maybe if I come here after
obtaining maybe a higher degree and be a professor or something, then I
would have the chances of exploring nature pretty much all the rest of
my life.

Anyways, I said hi and since I was lying on all fours they jumped to the
other side of the waterfall and went down really quickly, and before I
took one or two steps they were at the ground. I finally went down the
treacherous path, and they were just driving away in their cars, and we
said hi again. I said I am visiting and they said good job, and the 3
mile up the mountain are the hardest in the world, the waterfall part
are very hard and it will be easier up there and they congratulated me.
So I was happy again. I kind of wanted to go up there but anyways I was
lucky to go without injuring myself. I went to the railroad depot and
boarded the bus.

Then it became time to say goodbye, and it became very very sad\--I
never want to leave Seward, and this is almost my favourite place so
far. Alaska is so much better than Berkeley, where you cannot even eat
peacefully at a Macdonald or Subway, where there are too many homeless
and beggars and strange people that walking on the streets downtown
yields a feeling of disgust, although the surrounding area is ok. But I
figured I have been to most of the surrounding areas already anyways.

### Photos {#photos342342 .photos234234}

\
Seward High School\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/h7tSAsREqNYRGb8AviTLGpTbUvSZrL6k48TiRH4Nrhtpe55zV4dFyrXwcQ9AZo4SQhKmX4-7ySU_wpE22JqKseytFrDrWP9Eb2Wj9izqGP4HhLYmi1Umli82QdywgwFTrQQd28YmraVbzoJRm3iW2TJSiQ3sIDU8w5_xPRxB6Eu-wfoUgZSPmCRoaML4og=s800)\
\
Resurrection Bay\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/QQBF-eEDOQjSbGH1zJSpBn3k05qrquZwnBxj-mgxLbIn9SZ7wrbTUcjpgMnrHAh20btqwJwgCUx7hjs444KkjxzT19ozRtOW5_cC5Idd5nmpE2ZU3PAUlB_4-DTzWUrLpBtuS7GCPPOf1e_2BdYbEQQRkQSOGZz3-awIl1RLahekVijkmG2VPHv0PuLyfQ=s800)\
\
Helicopter Tour\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/Chp_rt-o13Poz5NYWiaj0caYi2x2NMfexdt_EkKrn_gs6BJtolXlJtkll20SL1aGV4PrVTeDHCkc72y29HTlQChmdeADR8pN5pluQlioyGzRK3qDATLt5cJj9hGViAno3p3RDDuPm2oh6qw96GmHkMduVUNizfbjTbQBgOWpSTnz2ZiArp-DMHMm02u0hg=s800)\
\
Bear Glacier\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/1Lmv8TcGxgHVrzJOWEYANojKuleZGSHZ1wN6UXrbnr_lCpIpPkQq0xTg68qhMgbJSvqVoJgpL7ZOz0lIhB_s0kYqtK6hCsA2xf6hetRXgxfXw08NfEyw6B73gCahYHzFjxv_mU1l0AHcaYFQbUd6Zf6jHEcDh09peVkDTqirsv75_zXpVcBxDatOTBbRlw=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/V8ibHfD5QLfX_UMiebIws8fHU6Te_rQCbpl40bog2bgk86i7Kndyay3UWR2FqKSUh4hNnEI_dEqNytlmDQx2G3H65scDK-IVctnnE3DRbCjvfd99i4J-FtYe06W33UZCsCYIKwpbDgIGaMsAUP82dEYHfyiHeT2gD-F-IiPg6aZBWI04hoZIcVMKCSseRA=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/n-UK0GDgiIxDRHnlBeXbvbsb9NwJ8ZCt6-UHUoOzrIran2NPk_NF4nBAuEFqE6Je02aGKkhAcvA5wcagIUQrtG926vF-pNefnmK3KjznHpwL6KX1tbGBzs-FRBG6Muz6LZDZppga_z4W-GTfOUDj9eQB0tPokKkZm8ORkBlalvxl2n7sXoFZUWjjJv0sxw=s800)\
\
Slate Island\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/FtbuenJDo4FlOt1saxOMFsDXNgV9cPBdBsaJARBFHKwe7_9Bb_vbioXllGw6p6xzQH9_GKXB-8fKcqU5vUWnPiRVmbUuIDEbQReqq5QHw4l50-pG_uxLbGa4r1WKoOMt50kuZwLJzgUfgcRCVd4oQQC6D4RiZSgeGKSJVEv_Kfs5254dqVKhtC-MwIGXWg=s800)\
\
Resurrection Bay\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/07kY4lDZKqykaPGmDFsBZI9WNtPwEVrMYs-0gUVz5PiZjXDU1xuLuJvniWs7fH1rMbWZj1C9Vvxs0mAPmJnFIAj1lS_15nhNF1A1IQk5tvt0ZILmUt5OvobfiPdSpIs9WMv65cy08IMrFZOebZL_eU69ybebodRQXyOCLalVfot2BSj-fKcGhAggmOCbLw=s800)\
\
Holgate Glacier\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/JTmd0bPkCK2gxei4P-ynhT8SCEnyPkO4evRrCmdVn01aicEILiyuAGlHiw8M2gBm8ND3NuC2pHyDeNRu0JgZ8uA465sdLpl-6O8_JrAFkh7I87cuxZi1h8v5OfWwrI3l01Eue0hx1fpOogZ1OK-OYKe1yAkS5uOHnsKXQR98jELg26C1_5rp4oGv6U-RkA=s800)\
\
Harding Icefield\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/JZechodUbr0a6057X0NecSgFfdzPurc4_QP4Sym7TikDUN3M-7VHYkVy80CZJS2JHAh_jG730Hu-Huap7wbir0UR8Vt4HiH04ICLCEmDcYuYm-T-Wx2oYKRQbJZiQwX0jywfmNifTsXpQyUWVnd5mnLHVGoMAFRCpJFJCSedEPPfp3B-q9qPjwdF-UDP9w=s800)\
\
\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/yohVcog3SbhqSR9r6j8P0m9Ntjsn1Ql07JeBSfxgO4MCNzTPhx2MrSAC2wQIWb7YFrPxtiQYfTkE_IF_4b1bnVpVcNalOUqzdkPTj3nP6meEVW9ztXuzkfejxrzkGVZsEgJSEZhJgRWsrV3jCiuObV0e5Pp7htG3c5b-nOAG7QP2xh3riFa3MnpjbMOZqw=s800)\
\
The car I Hitchhiked in\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/36rU-Q-itKe3so5CkEtnMl3yJ4dLh2NKT1eLxP7awlz1LL6eknt2mfz1RTBhG_xRfZcs3N8cF2dlwGOQLfGxc7DyobZGA8ZqDJe0SGDrpk3Uc4C8q0peFq80ygvyT8zp5_PENTejmePSjWJcFNKWH9ahMszPJi6URXsqS9vmdTAp-j_VbCymigeMotkZSQ=s800)\
\
Waterfall Switchback Trail\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/fhvAPQFl3Gv0wemWJcoMisVYd6RuaKhihNz6nVLuQl6VTPjGE72fmh0QhcTQ_EfNLM1oaEZy2zmLiG85H-neOWiuksJWK49bWqyPX3PHuXXk6lzrIA2QqS7ki74zCsaIsNBHCH6aNuqB3_xsi2Kq9gigovkmrMBQ6Jvuhgh8ShGZ0zPPlvt1sSj-YzeiJQ=s800)\
\
Summit Lake\
![](https://blog.jimchen.me/qgvIiDNdy3J_sQPzCcLYkNzAHCpdmCM0f8YZgSnE3EvTMgxVZGwSiEMbkKM_s_e2Wqe3J8DXH9vOH3BvFkovolaU7CzdB4RL53lKTbTlntqehbh8EtyCkNg52d2H--tYL81hNNYgVoULv-Fc1PMttgIutEWzaP_Ba-B24PVCWGXJQanX1MKjRLSGYhZleA=s800)\
\

::: iframe
::: {style="display:none"}
::: {#one-google-bar .ndfHFb-c4YZDc-Woal0c-jcJzye-ZMv3u .ndfHFb-c4YZDc-n1UuX-Bz112c}
::: {#gb .gb_Pa .gb_ld .gb_gb .gb_i .gb_Oc style="background-color:transparent"}
::: {.gb_Bd .gb_eb .gb_qd ng-non-bindable="" ogsr-up="" style="padding:0"}
::: {.gb_Ud style="display:block"}
::: gb_6c
:::

[[登入]{.gb_Kd}](https://accounts.google.com/ServiceLogin?service=wise&passive=1209600&osid=1&continue=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mHZSJdZu0gxC5B8ePxPGXzTMt8TMywgE/preview&followup=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mHZSJdZu0gxC5B8ePxPGXzTMt8TMywgE/preview&ec=GAZAGQ){.gb_Ba
.gb_md .gb_Od .gb_i .gb_me aria-label="登入" target="_top"}
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {ng-non-bindable=""}
:::
:::
