---
title: "Walking in Pudong"
date: Mon Jul 26 2021 08:00:00
type: shanghai
---
I live in the Pudong district and really like it here. As I am always
energetic and had been to lots of interesting places, I'd like to share
with you some of my experiences.

One thing I like about Pudong is that it is much quieter and less
crowded than the city center. There are fewer people and cars in Pudong
and more trees, so the environment is better and it is a better place
for walking.

In eighth grade, I decided I hate the noise in the city center. (for at
that time I lived near Zhongxing Road) I wanted to find a quiet place
where I could be myself. I used to go alone on subways to the terminal
station. There were not many people in the countryside, but it was
always deserted there. Sometimes so bare and bleak that it seemed like I
am the only person in kilometers.

It is not really great near Yuandong Avenue Station, for you can't get
any water to drink and may face the danger of being attacked by wild
dogs in villages. This picture is near that station.

Some of these places are ok during the daytime, though in some places
there are trucks, like the place near Line 5 Xidu station. All I could
smell was smoke and gas when they speed past.

But these places are bad to go to at nighttime. When I was walking on
Jinke road and came to Shanghai Aircraft Design and Research Institute
(down Huaxia Road), I thought about turning left for I didn't know about
that place. It felt scary and ghostly. There are two fields that look
like farmland, except that the grass in it is as tall as man, with
nothing that looks like a building in sight. There were the calls of
insects in there. There were no cars, except for a few people learning
cars who are driving slowly around. But the roads are unbuilt and I had
to go back and forth to find my way, always turning back. The roads end
suddenly and it looks unfinished. At some point, I tried to see what was
beyond a road that ends in the middle when a man came out of a house and
asked what I was doing. It scared me because it was dark there. I was
taken aback and hurriedly got away. After that, I think that place is
haunted.

In other places, like the Shendu highway in the south of Pudong, there
are farms and fruits there. I saw grapes and peaches. They grow in
greenhouses. There are even farmers there.

If you still can't get a vivid picture of the countryside from my
description, well just go see for it yourself and you'll see what I
mean.

I am just a restless boy eager to travel far away and always wandering
around for no clear reason. I decided that it is normal, but I found few
people like me.

These days the typhoon is really annoying me as I have to stay at home.
But I must also count myself lucky since so many people are working
these days just to maintain our daily life and ensure our safety.
Anyway, I hope all will be back to normal soon.
